 

                                                     AV-R3XSR-TE

                                                    January 2003


Dear Customer

In an effort to provide enhanced storage management software ca-
pability to our customers, HP offers this release of HP Archive
Backup System (ABS) for OpenVMS Version 4.1. Thank you for your
recent purchase of this product.

If you are a current HP ABS user running ABS 3.0X or older, and
you have not upgraded to the ABS V4.0 stream you will need to
perform a conversion of your existing ABS policy database when
you upgrade to version 4.1. Many of the changes in V4.0X stream
are a redesign of the software to make it more reliable and more
maintainable for future enhancements.

HP Archive Backup System is an application that will perform
automated backup of your data, and provide a secure copy in the
event of unforeseen disasters due to nature or simple operator
errors. ABS earns its keep whenever you need to restore a file,
directory, or an entire disk (physical or virtual) due to the
loss of the original data. The backups are performed automat-
ically on a scheduled basis, but the restores are corrective
actions initiated by you whenever needed.

Just as the prior versions of ABS, version 4.1:

o  Honors either an ABS or Storage Library System (SLS) license
   PAK. A review of licenses is still underway by product man-
   agement and engineering. No action is needed by customers at
   this point.

o  Runs under a wide range of OpenVMS operating system ver-
   sions:

   -  Alpha versions 6.2, 7.1-2, 7.2-2, 7.3 and 7.3-1.

   -  VAX versions 6.2, 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3.

   -  If you need to run under an earlier version than those
      listed, you will need to purchase a "prior version support
      contract" with the OpenVMS organization, and ABS will have
      to be qualified for that specific version of OpenVMS.

o  Is qualified on Fibre Channel connected tape storage for
   OpenVMS V7.2-2 and V7.3. The Software Product Description
   lists the tape libraries and the Modular Data Router (MDR)
   and the Network Storage Router (NSR) that serves a bridge
   between the FC and the SCSI interface of the tape drive.

Expanded features for Version 4.1:

o  ABS now allows a selective restore from a DISK type catalog.

 

o  The saveset name format has been changed from DDMMMYYHHMMSSHH
   to YYYYMMDDHHMMSSHH to ensure uniqueness in the saveset
   names.

o  The free volume and drive allocation algorithm in ABS has
   been improved.

o  Generation of OPCOMs when no free volumes are available in
   the jukebox.

o  Changes made to use a volume present ONSITE during save and
   restore in case of a jukebox.

o  A new logical "MDMS$SBT_RESTORE_SINGLE_CHANNEL" has been
   introduced in the System Backup to Tape (SBT) feature of ABS
   /MDMS V4.1.

o  ABS is compatible with RMU V7.1 backups but the backups will
   hang if the RMU version is prior to RMU V7.1.0.4.

o  The MDMS internal scheduler now honors holiday definitions.

o  A week of year field has been added to the schedule object.

o  MDMS V4.1 allows you to specify wildcards with the MDMS SHOW
   commands and the /SYMBOLS qualifier.

o  Predefined volume reports and user-defined volume report
   formats have been added for all users and logged-in user in
   MDMSView GUI.

o  The MDMSView GUI can now display or modify ABS (&+) volume
   records.

The JAVA Runtime Environment (JRE), as used by the GUI, is not
included in the ABS installation kit because the JRE changes
independently of ABS. Therefore, you will need to download
the current JRE from the web, as described in the Guide to
Operations Manual.

ABS V4.1 allows "rolling" upgrades from ABS V4.X only and not
from ABS V3.X versions. ABS V4.0 has moved the policy database,
cataloging and networks within the MDMS server. The server and
clients will all need to be updated at the same time to maintain
communications.

Engineering recommends that the customer prepare for this up-
grade by becoming familiar with the Installation guide and Re-
lease notes for both ABS and MDMS. The additional documents are
contained in PDF format in ABS041.b saveset.

Hierarchical Storage Management (HSM) V4.1 has been qualified
with the MDMS V4.1 and found to be compatible.

                                2

 

ABS engineering encourages customers to move to the V4.1 version
as the customer can benefit from new features and bugfixes found
in earlier versions of the product. The V4.X stream has made
dramatic changes to the ABS product and will continue to evolve
into a more intuitive automatic backup product.

For those customers who have not done the conversion from a
V3.2A to the V4.X stream, engineering understands that customers
need to plan for this upgrade and it may not have been possible,
ABS engineering will support the V3.2A for the remainder of
Calendar Year 2003, but engineering will not continue to fix
problems reported in V3.2A in V3.2A. Fixes will be rolled into
V4.1X. V3.2A customers will be asked to upgrade.

Changes to the scope of Support for ABS V4.1:

ABS Version 4.1 is only compatible to ABS NT client for Windows
NT Intel. Windows NT Alpha operating system is now end of life.
The ABS UNIX client will only utilize Tru64 UNIX. The ABS UNIX
client may still function with other brands of UNIX, but no
support will be provided for non-Tru64 UNIX.

POLYCENTER Scheduler V2.1B can be used only as scheduler_type,
SCHEDULER with an existing license. ABS engineering would
encourage customers to use the INTERNAL option as increased
flexibility should serve your needs.

ABS V4.1 only supports the use of MDMS V4.1 for its media man-
ager. All ABS users should be updating to this current version
of the product. If you need assistance in updating your en-
vironment, please contact the customer support center or your
designated field representative.

Please refer to the release notes for what bugfixes are con-
tained in V4.1 since V4.0B.

The following documentation is available for ABS. The PDF ver-
sions are included in the kit. All the documents are included on
the OpenVMS Consolidated Documentation CD. The ABS kits are also
available from the web. Refer to http://www.openvms.compaq.com
/openvms/storage/abspage.html

o  Archive Backup System Version V4.1 software for VAX and Alpha
   systems





o  Archive Backup System Version V4.1 for OpenVMS documenta-
   tion:

   -  SPD 48.16.22

                                3

 

   -  ABS Release Notes(online only)

   -  Installation Guide

   -  Guide to Operations

   -  ABS for OpenVMS MDMS reference manual

   -  Media, Device and Management Services Version 4.1 OpenVMS
      Release Notes

Refer to the SPD for any prerequisite software. Refer to the ABS
V4.1 Installation guide for installation prerequisites.

Java (JRE) Versions

Java (JRE) Versions JRE-1.2, 1.3 and 1.4 are qualified. See ABS
release notes for more information.

Oracle RDB Versions

Oracle Rdb versions V7.0-6, V7.0-6.1, V7.0-9 and V7.1.0.4 are
qualified.

For additional information, please refer to the product documen-
tation. If you need additional assistance, please call the HP
Customer Support Center.

                              NOTE

   The Storage Management Software organization makes every
   effort to be as current and correct in our listing of
   compatible versions for Operating Systems, hardware and
   third party software products. Ultimately, your existing
   contract with any of these entities will take precedent.

Sincerely,

OpenVMS Product Management
CXOSWPM@hp.com
©2003 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.













                                4
