 


                              Compaq

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  Compaq Ada Version 3.5A for OpenVMS VAX Systems  
SPD 26.60.18

DESCRIPTION

This Software Product Description includes the following two products:

o  Compaq Ada for OpenVMS VAX Systems

o  Compaq Ada Professional Development
   Option for OpenVMS VAX Systems

Compaq Ada for OpenVMS VAX is the Compaq Computer Corporation imple-
mentation of the full ANSI/MIL-STD-1815A-1983 Ada Language. As a re-
sult of meeting the ANSI standard, Compaq Ada also conforms to the Fed-
eral Information Processing Standard (FIPS-119). The Compaq Ada compiler 
runs on the OpenVMS operating system and generates optimized, shareable, 
and position-independent code.

As a native mode OpenVMS language, Compaq Ada is integrated into the
OpenVMS common language environment. All OpenVMS system services and
utilities are available to programs written in Compaq Ada. Compaq Ada
supports the OpenVMS Record Management Services (RMS) sequential, rel-
ative, and indexed file organizations and associated access methods.
Compaq Ada programs can invoke modules written in other OpenVMS languages. 
Additionally, programs written in other languages can invoke Compaq Ada 
modules.

Ada is a powerful, general-purpose language that supports many modern 
programming practices. The language was designed as the result of
a competition sponsored by the United States Department of Defense.
The purpose of the competition was to define a language suitable for
programming-embedded computer systems. Among the requirements for the

                                                          June 2000

                                                        AE-EU91R-TE

 

language are features that reduce software costs by increasing main-
tainability, evolvability, reliability, and portability.

Ada provides a modular structure for programs by allowing separate com-
pilation of program units, as well as providing strong typing, tasking, 
exception handling, and other standard language features that must
be supported across implementations. Ada provides a number of features
from general systems to real-time applications.

Ada Language Features

o  Strong Typing - An object (variable) of a given type may take on
   only those values that are appropriate to that type, and only cer-
   tain predefined operations may be performed on data of that type.
   Because type checking is done at compile time, strong typing en-
   sures that any errors associated with incorrect data types are 
   detected at compile time.

o  Data Abstraction - Also known as information hiding, data abstrac-
   tion hides implementation details while providing users with mech-
   anisms for using the implementation. Abstraction allows users to
   focus on important characteristics while ignoring underlying de-
   tails. Ada provides various levels of abstraction through features
   such as private data types and packages.

o  Concurrent Processing - For many applications, it is important that
   a program be conceived of as a number of parallel, rather than serial 
   activities. Most high-order languages provide little or no support for 
   handling such parallel or concurrent activities. They rely on facilities 
   of the host operating system. Ada uses tasks to allow parallel activities 
   to be programmed directly within the language.

o  Separate Compilation - Ada's separate compilation feature allows
   a programmer to divide a large program into compilation units that
   may be compiled at different times. When a unit is compiled, the
   Ada program library manager records information about that unit and
   other related units. This feature is unlike separate compilation
   features in other languages where little information about separately 
   compiled modules is maintained.

                                 2

 

o  Generic Definitions - A generic unit is a template from which specific  
   instances can be made at compile time. In many cases, the logic
   of an algorithm or a set of operations is independent of the specific 
   type of the values being manipulated. However, in a strongly typed 
   language such as Ada, all types must be defined at compile time. Generic 
   definitions let the user define a general algorithm or set of related 
   operations and then create a specific instance of that algorithm or set 
   of operations for each type to which the algorithm or operations must apply.

o  Exception Handling - In many operations, especially embedded computer 
   systems, it is critical that a system be able to recover quickly
   and efficiently from error conditions. Ada provides the ability to
   raise and handle exceptions. It includes predefined exceptions and
   also permits the user to define exceptions. When an exception occurs 
   in an Ada program, normal processing is abandoned and control passes 
   to the exception handler.

Compaq Ada Components and Special System-Related Features:

o  Ada compiler that fully conforms to ANSI/MIL-STD-1815A-1983. For
   details see the DEC Ada Language Reference Manual.

o  Ada program library manager that provides support for programming
   teams through:

   -  Program libraries that can be shared by many programmers

   -  A powerful search list model for program libraries. This per-
      mits the following:

      *  The relationships among program libraries can be changed easily.

      *  Individual programmers can establish different views of program 
         library relationships.

   -  Automatic recompilation of obsolete compilation units

   -  The ability to share compiled Ada code either by reference or
      copy

                                 3

 

o  Strongly typed Compaq Ada bindings that provide interfaces for the
   following versions of X Window
   Systems[TM] and Motif[R] routines:

   -  X Window System Version 11R4 and Motif
      Version 1.1.3

   -  X Window System Version 11R5 and Motif
      Version 1.2

o  Implementation of AI-00866, which permits an 8-bit character set
   based on ISO standard 8859/1 (commonly known as Latin-1).

o  Availability of a portability command that causes a portability sum-
   mary report to be included with the compilation listing file. The
   report indicates the use of potentially nonportable features and
   constructs.

o  Support for the ISO Math Library packages
   GENERIC_PRIMITIVE_FUNCTIONS and
   GENERIC_ELEMENTARY_FUNCTIONS.

o  Debugging capability provided through the
   OpenVMS Debugger. High-level, fully symbolic debugging including
   support for debugging tasking programs, packages and mixed Compaq
   Ada and non-Ada code.

o  Integration with OpenVMS VAX operating system including:

   -  Conformance to the OpenVMS VAX Calling Standard, which allows
      Ada code to call and be called by code written in other languages,
      as well as to call OpenVMS system services and the OpenVMS VAX
      Run-Time Library

   -  The ability to call Open Record Management Services (RMS) routines 
      directly

   -  Full access to relative and indexed file capabilities

   -  The ability to handle exceptions from non-Ada code and generate 
      exceptions to be handled by non-Ada code

   -  The ability to handle OpenVMS asynchronous system traps (ASTs)

                                 4

 

   -  The ability to link with shared images and use shared global sections

   -  The ability to share data with non-Ada code through global variables 
      and psects (common blocks)

o  System-dependent facilities - Different systems vary in such char-
   acteristics as the size of storage units, memory size, and the smallest 
   and largest integer values supported. Compaq Ada provides the
   predefined package SYSTEM to define system-related constants and
   to represent system-dependent information.

o  Compaq Ada provides representation clauses that allow the user to
   tailor the representation of data to suit a particular system. Compaq 
   Ada provides:

   -  Length clauses that specify the amount of storage associated with
      a type

   -  Enumeration representation clauses that specify the internal codes
      for the literals of enumeration types

   -  Record representation clauses that specify the layout of a record
      type, such as the order, position, and size of record components

   -  Address clauses that specify required addresses in storage for
      objects, imported subprograms, or single entries

o  Compaq Ada provides a number of pragmas (compiler directives) that
   allow various system-related parameters to be set and changed and
   control mixed-language programming.

o  Comprehensive diagnostic messages with references to the DEC Ada
   Language Reference Manual. This feature is directed at helping the
   new Compaq Ada user.





                                 5

 

Compaq Ada Professional Development Option for OpenVMS VAX Systems

The Compaq Ada Professional Development Option is a separately licensed
option that is available with Compaq Ada on OpenVMS VAX Systems. The
Compaq Ada Professional Development Option includes the following ca-
pabilities:

o  Smart Recompilation - This feature can significantly reduce the number 
   of recompilations that are needed to rebuild a Compaq Ada program after 
   some compilation units change. Smart recompilation enables the compiler 
   to propagate changes quickly through a system, eliminating up to 100% of 
   the usual recompilations.

o  Program Library File-Block Caching - This feature uses an in-memory
   cache of file blocks to minimize the actual amount of disk input-
   output that must be performed. As a result, the elapsed time for
   compilations is significantly reduced.

o  Multilevel Program Library Directory Structure - This feature pro-
   vides a more efficient program library directory structure to improve 
   the performance of access to large program libraries.

The Compaq Ada Professional Development Option is designed so that it
is compatible with libraries that are created without the Compaq Ada
Professional Development Option and libraries created with a previous 
version of Compaq Ada. Once a program library is created, Compaq
Ada programmers do not need to change any of their development pro-
cedures to benefit from the Compaq Ada Professional Development Option.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Processors Supported

Any VAX system that is capable of running OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2
and Version 6.2 or higher.




                                 6

 

Processors Not Supported:

MicroVAX I
VAXstation I
VAXstation 8000
VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730
VAX-11/750, VAX-11/751
VAX-11/780, VAX-11/782, VAX-11/785

Processor Restrictions:

A TK50 Tape Drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and 
VAXstation 2000 systems.

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1):

Disk space required to install Version 3.5A if Compaq Ada Version 3.4
was not previously installed:

Disk space required for      115,000 blocks
installation:
                             (54.1 Mbytes)

Disk space required for      80,000 blocks
use (permanent):
                             (39.2 Mbytes)

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
system environment, configuration, and software options.

Compilation performance is highly dependent on the amount of physical 
memory present. At least 2 Mbytes of physical memory is recommended
for each concurrent Ada compilation. A minimum working set of 1.25 Mbytes
is recommended.

Memory Requirements for DECwindows Support:

The minimum supported memory for this application running in a standalone 
DECwindows environment with both the client and server execuing on that 
same system is 8 Mbytes.

                                 7

 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

Compaq Ada for OpenVMS VAX Systems

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System Version 5.5-2-7.2 (SPD 25.01.xx)

Compaq Ada Professional Development Option for
OpenVMS VAX

o  Compaq Ada Version 3.5A for OpenVMS VAX Systems and

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System Version 5.2-2-7.2 (SPD 25.01.xx)

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished only under the licensing provisions of Compaq 
Computer Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information 
about Compaq's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Compaq 
office.

License Management Facility Support:

This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
layered product. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individ-
ual at a time to use the layered product.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX
operating system documentation set.

OpenVMS Tailoring:

The following OpenVMS classes are required for use of full features
of this layered product:

                                 8

 

o  OpenVMS Required Saveset

o  Utilities

o  Programming Support

For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
and licensed OpenVMS Cluster* configuration without restrictions. The
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section of this product's Software Product De-
scription details any special hardware required by this product.

*  OpenVMS Cluster configurations are fully described in the OpenVMS
   Cluster Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, 
   Ethernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

o  DECset Version 12.3 for OpenVMS VAX Systems, which includes:

   -  DIGITAL Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code
      Analyzer (LSE/SCA) Version 4.6 for OpenVMS VAX Systems

   -  DIGITAL Test Manager Version 3.9 for OpenVMS VAX Systems

   -  DIGITAL Performance and Coverage Analyzer (PCA) Version 4.6 for
      OpenVMS VAX Systems

   -  DIGITAL Code Management System (CMS) Version 4.0 for OpenVMS VAX
      Systems

   -  DIGITAL Module Management System (MMS)
      Version 3.3 for OpenVMS VAX Systems

For more information on DECset for OpenVMS VAX Systems, refer to the
Software Product Description (SPD 27.07.xx).

                                 9

 

o  DIGITAL GKS for OpenVMS VAX Systems

For more information on Digital GKS for OpenVMS VAX Systems, refer to
the Software Product Description (SPD 26.20.xx).

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.

Note: A version update represents a complete distribution media replace-
ment for the previous release of Compaq Ada. All user-developed source
modules that comprise an application must be recompiled and rebuilt
using only Compaq Ada software for that version update. Individual com-
ponents of Compaq Ada software from the latest version update cannot
be used in conjunction with components from a previous version.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

Nine-track Magtape, TK50 Streaming Tape

The software binaries and documentation are also available on vari-
ous CD-ROM distributions:

o  OpenVMS VAX Software Layered Products Library-This offering includes
   the OpenVMS VAX Layered Product software binaries. (QA-5FW8A-A8)

o  OpenVMS VAX Online Documentation Library-This offering includes the
   documentation for the OpenVMS VAX Layered Products. (QA-VYR8A-G8)

o  OpenVMS VAX Software Layered Products Library Package- This offer-
   ing contains both the software binaries and documentation for the
   OpenVMS VAX Layered Products. (QA-5G88A-H8)






                                10

 

YEAR 2000 WARRANTY

This product is Year 2000 ready.

Year 2000 Ready is defined: "Year 2000 Ready" products are defined by
Compaq as products capable of accurately processing, providing, and
/or receiving date data from, into and between the twentieth and the
twenty-first centuries, and the years 1999 and 2000, inlcuding leap
year calculations, when used in accordance with the associated product 
documentation and provided that all hardware, firmware and software used 
in combination with such products properly exchange accurate date data 
with the products.

For additional information visit the DIGITAL Brand area on Compaq's
Year 2000 Ready web site located at 
http://www.compaq.com/year2000/waranties3.html.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

This software is provided by Compaq with a 90 day conformance warranty
in accordance with the Compaq warranty terms applicable to the license
purchase.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Compaq Ada for OpenVMS VAX Systems

Software Licenses:
   Personal Use: QL-056AA-2B
   Concurrent Use: QL-056AA-3*
   Unlimited System Use: QL-056A*-**
Software Media: QA-056A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-056AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-056A*-**

Compaq Ada Professional Development Option for OpenVMS VAX Systems





                                11

 

Software Licenses:
   Personal Use: QL-0VQAA-2B
   Concurrent Use: QL-0VQAA-3*
   Unlimited System Use: QL-0VQA*-**
Read Before Installation Letter: QA-0VQAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0VQA*-**

Note: The Software Documentation kit (order number QA-0VQAA-GZ) con-
tains only the Read Before Installation letter and must be ordered (at
no cost) with all licenses for Compaq Ada Professional Development 
Option for OpenVMS VAX Systems.

The Compaq Ada Professional Development Option for OpenVMS VAX Sys-
tems binaries are provided with the Compaq Ada binaries (QA-056A*-**).
Purchase of a Compaq Ada Professional Development Option for OpenVMS
VAX Systems License (QL-0VQA*-**) enables use of this capability.

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
   licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Compaq. For more in-
formation, contact your local Compaq office.

The previous information is valid at time of release. Please contact
your local Compaq office for the most up-to-date information.

[TM] Compaq, and the Compaq logo, are registered in the U.S.
     Patent and Trademark Office.

[R]  Motif is a registered trademark of The Open Group

[R]  POSTSCRIPT is a registered trademark of Adobe Sytems Incorporated.





                                12

 


[TM] X Window System is a common law trademark of the Mas-
     sachusetts Institute of Technology.

[TM] CI, DEC, DEC Ada, DEC Ada PDO, DECset, DECstation, DECsystem,
     DECwindows, DECthreads, DIGITAL, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, VAX,
     OpenVMS Cluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, XD Ada
     are trademarks of Compaq Computer Corporation.

© 2000 Compaq Computer Corporation.
   All rights reserved.





























                                13
