 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  Encryption for OpenVMS, Version 1.6     SPD 26.74.05

Note: This Software Product Description describes the Encryption for
OpenVMS Version 1.6 software for the Alpha and VAX computer family.
Except where explicitly noted, the features described in this SPD ap-
ply equally to OpenVMS Alpha and VAX systems. Encryption for OpenVMS
Alpha and Encryption for OpenVMS VAX software licenses and part num-
bers are architecture specific; please refer to the Ordering Infor-
mation section of this SPD for further details.

PRODUCT SUMMARY

Encryption for OpenVMS is a layered product that enhances the confi-
dentiality and integrity of information stored on OpenVMS systems. The
rapid growth of business transactions over the Internet combined with
more system administration functions being outsourced, heighten the
need for stronger protection of your data. Encryption for OpenVMS pro-
vides the ability for your information to transfer safely through un-
known hands and channels without disclosing its contents. Encryption
for OpenVMS also provides a mechanism to detect if your information
has been altered from its original form.

STANDARDS

Encryption for OpenVMS is a software implementation of the Data En-
cryption Standard (DES) algorithm, from the United States Government.
Details on the DES cryptographic algorithm are found in the Federal
Information Processing standard 46 (FIPS PUB 46-2).




                                                          July 2001

 

DESCRIPTION

Encryption is a process that transforms data into an unreadable form
called cipher. Decryption transforms the cipher back into its orig-
inal (readable) form. Encryption for OpenVMS assures that the data you
decrypt is the same as your original data through synchronization pro-
cesses that utilizes variables known as keys. Once encrypted, data can
only be decrypted with the appropriate key. Thus, encryption can pro-
tect sensitive data by limiting access to only individuals who have
access to the appropriate keys.

Data authentication is a two-step process that verifies the authen-
ticity of data, that is, that the data has not been altered. The first
step is to calculate code that is directly dependent on the data. En-
cryption for OpenVMS supports the use of encrypted manipulation de-
tection codes (MDCs) and cryptographic message authentication codes
(MACs). MDCs are generated by algebraic functions that accept the data
as input. Examples of such functions include cyclic redundancy checks.
Encryption for OpenVMS uses CRC-16 to calculate MDCs. MACs are gen-
erated by cryptographic functions that take the data as input. Encryp-
tion for OpenVMS uses the DES algorithm to generate MACs. The second
step is to recalculate the code as needed. If the calculated code is
identical to the original code, there is assurance that the original
data has not been altered.

Encryption for OpenVMS provides these features.
A DCL interface from which users can:

o  Encrypt and decrypt complete files

o  Generate and verify MACs on complete files

o  Access the Encryption for OpenVMS help library

An Application Program Interface allowing programs to:

o  Encrypt and decrypt complete files or specific data elements



                                 2

 

o  Generate and verify MACs on complete files or specific data ele-
   ments

An interface to the OpenVMS Backup utility that allows users to main-
tain encrypted backup save sets.

File Encryption

Encryption for OpenVMS provides a Digital Command Language (DCL) in-
terface to specify encryption keys and to control the encryption and
decryption of disk-resident files. The entire contents of files are
encrypted along with separately stored file attribute information such
as record structure, original creation date, and original file name.
These attributes are then restored at decryption time along with orig-
inal file contents. Encryption for OpenVMS supports several options
during the encryption and decryption process including: automatic dele-
tion of the input file upon successful encryption and data compres-
sion of the input file before encryption.

File Authentication

The same Encryption for OpenVMS DCL interface is used to control the
generation and verification of MACs for disk-resident files. Only the
data portion of files are processed for MACs. File attribute infor-
mation, which can normally change during authorized file operations,
is not processed. The files themselves remain unencrypted and the MACs
are stored in a separate data base.

For files that are encrypted, authentication checks are done automat-
ically by Encryption for OpenVMS during the decryption processes. An
MDC is calculated and is encrypted along with the other file attribute
information. When the file is decrypted, the MDC is recalculated and
compared with the decrypted MDC.







                                 3

 

Key Specification and Storage

Key values for the encryption and authentication algorithms may be spec-
ified as either sixteen hexadecimal digits or by a more easily remem-
bered and manipulated phrase of words and numerals. The alphanumeric
phrase format is scanned and packed into a form required by the se-
lected algorithm. In Encryption for OpenVMS Version 1.6, all keys are
stored, themselves encrypted, in the OpenVMS logical name tables.

Application Program Interface

Encryption for OpenVMS provides a set of callable routines that al-
lows users to integrate its encryption/decryption and authentication
functions in application programs. The Encryption for OpenVMS library
of callable routines adheres to the OpenVMS Calling Standard and the
modular design established in the Guide to Creating OpenVMS Modular
Procedures. Entry points are provided to permit the specification and
deletion of keys, encryption/decryption of complete files, encryption/decryption
of user-specified data elements, and generation of MACs for user-specified
data elements.

For example, the data-encryption facility permits a user application
to manage a data file containing employee information with the salary
data field encrypted. Almost all functions possible by the DCL com-
mand interface are provided by the application interface. The binary
kit includes a complete PASCAL example of an encrypting utility to serve
as a model of how such an application might be written.

Backup Utility

The online OpenVMS Backup utility incorporates an interface to Encryp-
tion for OpenVMS to permit the encryption of backup save sets. Restora-
tion or listing of the contents of an encrypted backup save set is not
permitted without respecification of the encryption key and algorithm
parameters used when the save set was encrypted and created. When key
and algorithm parameters are stored or transmitted separately from the




                                 4

 

resulting backup media, access to the backed up data may be more care-
fully controlled. This enhances the security of backup tapes and disks
when stored or transported off the customer's premises.

DES Algorithm and Modes

The DES algorithm may be applied in several modes to the processing
of data. Encryption for OpenVMS Version 1.6 supports: Electronic Code
Book mode (ECB), Cipher Block Chain mode (CBC), Cipher Feedback mode
(CFB), and Message Authentication Code mode (MAC). CFB mode is lim-
ited to 8-bit character feedback only. The MAC mode uses the CBC mode
for processing.

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this prod-
uct, Compaq recommends that all other customers purchase Compaq's In-
stallation Services. These services provide for installation of the
software product by an experienced Compaq Software Specialist.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

To install Encryption for OpenVMS Version 1.6 an additional 2000 free
blocks of disk space is required.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

Encryption for OpenVMS runs on the following versions of OpenVMS.

OpenVMS Alpha

   OpenVMS Alpha Version 7.3
   OpenVMS Alpha Version 7.2-1







                                 5

 

OpenVMS VAX

   OpenVMS VAX Version 7.3
   OpenVMS VAX Version 7.2

ORDERING INFORMATION


Encryption for OpenVMS Alpha

   Software License: QL-597A*-**
   Software Documentation: BR-081AA-GZ
   Software Product Services: QT-597A*-*


Encryption for OpenVMS VAX

   Software License: QL-081A*-**
   Software Documentation: BR-081AA-GZ
   Software Product Services: QT-081A*-**

Note: * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

As with any security product, Encryption for OpenVMS should be con-
sidered part of an overall security plan. Customers are encouraged to
follow industry recognized security practices and not rely on any sin-
gle security product to provide complete protection.










                                 6

 

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

This product is distributed as part of the OpenVMS Software Product
Libraries.

The software documentation is also available as part of the OpenVMS
Online Documentation Libraries on CD-ROM.

DOCUMENTATION

Encryption for OpenVMS documentation includes:

o  Encryption for OpenVMS Installation and Reference Manual - Details
   the basic encryption user commands, documents the application pro-
   gramming interface, and provides the installation instructions.

© 2001 Compaq Computer Corporation

COMPAQ and the Compaq logo Registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Of-
fice. ACMS, Alpha, DECforms, DECnet, DIGITAL, OpenVMS, VAX, and VMS
are trademarks of Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P. in the
United States and other countries.

All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks or regis-
tered trademarks of their respective companies.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Compaq required for
possession, use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212,
Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and Tech-
nical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. ` Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Compaq shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omis-
sions contained herein. The information in this document is subject
to change without notice.





                                 7

 









































                                 8
