









            Please read this  cover letter  before installing
            your  software  kit  for  DIGITAL  Device  Access
            Software for  Allen-Bradley  Interchange  Version
            3.1.

            Dear Customer,

            Congratulations on having  purchased the enclosed
            kit belonging to  DIGITAL Device  Access Software
            for Allen-Bradley Interchange  product. Depending
            on the  exact DIGITAL  part number  ordered, your
            kit will be made up of the following components:

                 DIGITAL Part No. QL-53TA9-AA

                   License only for DIGITAL UNIX

                 DIGITAL Part No. QL-3PWA9-AA

                   License only for OpenVMS Alpha

                 DIGITAL Part No. QL-3PXA9-AA

                   License only for OpenVMS VAX




            Release Notes            Release Notes            Release Notes
            You  can   print   the   release   notes   during
            installation. The  release notes  contain various
            information,       including        restrictions,
            incompatibilities     and      amendments      to
            documentation.    Refer    to    the    product's
            installation guide for  details of how  to access
            and read release notes





            Unpublished rights  reserved under  the copyright
            laws of the United States.





            The  software  contained  on   DIGITAL  media  is
            proprietary  to  and  embodies  the  confidential
            technology  of  Digital   Equipment  Corporation.
            Possession, use, duplication, or dissemination of
            the  software  and   media  is   authorized  only





            pursuant to a valid  written license from Digital
            Equipment Corporation.




              Digital Equipment Corporation, 1997. All rights              Digital Equipment Corporation, 1997. All rights              Digital Equipment Corporation, 1997. All rights
                                reserved.                                reserved.                                reserved.
            March  1997                          AV-QCKXC-TE
