 






          COMPAQ


          Compaq DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS Version 7.3

          AV-PNHXT-TE

          March 2001

          Dear Customer:

          Thank you for purchasing Compaq DECnet-Plus networking software.
          The DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS software product (formerly named
          DECnet/OSI) is an implementation of Phase V of the DIGITAL
          Network Architecture (DNA) for the OpenVMS operating system
          hardware. DECnet-Plus networking software provides true network
          independence-you get the full functionality of DECnet Phase IV,
          as well as DECnet enhancements, plus full TCP/IP connectivity
          and OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) functionality.

          For a complete description of this product, see the Compaq
          DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS Version 7.3 Software Product Description
          (SPD) for either OpenVMS VAX or Alpha systems:

          o  VAX: SPD 25.03.45

          o  Alpha: SPD 50.45.14

          Compaq recommends that you read the DECnet-Plus Planning Guide
          before you install this product. If you need assistance in
          planning and installation, contact your local Compaq office.

          Version 7.3 of Compaq DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS software will be
          the last release available on TK50 tapes. Future releases will
          be available only on CD-ROM.

          Features

          Compaq DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS Version 7.3 software provides
          a set of applications for use on OpenVMS systems. This release
          supports the latest release of the operating system, OpenVMS
          Version 7.3, and provides corrections for a number of problems
          from the previous version (DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS Version 7.2-
          1).

          For complete information about the software functionality and
          features, see Chapter 2 of the DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS Release
          Notes manual for Version 7.3.

 






          Documentation Comments

          Compaq prides itself on responding to customer needs. To con-
          tinue serving you, we welcome your comments about any of the
          DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS documents. Please send us your comments
          through any of the following channels:

          Internet      openvmsdoc@compaq.com

          Fax           603 884-3799, Attention: OSSG Documentation, ZKO3-
                        4/U08

          Mail          OSSG Documentation Group, ZKO3-4/U08
                        110 Spit Brook Rd.
                        Nashua, NH 03062-2698































                          ©2001  Compaq Computer Corporation

          COMPAQ, VAX, VMS, and the Compaq logo Registered in U.S. Patent
          and Trademark Office. DECnet and OpenVMS are trademarks of
          Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P. in the United States
          and other countries.

          All other product names mentioned herein may be the trademarks
          of their respective companies.

                                          2
