 






          COMPAQ


          Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS, Version 1.2-6 Cover Letter

          April 2001

          Dear Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Customer,

          Compaq is pleased to provide you with the Compaq DECwindows Mo-
          tif for OpenVMS (DECwindows Motif), Version 1.2-6 kits for Open-
          VMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha. Except where noted, the information
          in this letter pertains to both products.

          DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6 is a maintenance release that
          delivers a full range of changes and enhancements to your desk-
          top. From faster batch scrolling to support for the Common
          Desktop Environment (CDE) screen saver and lock extensions,
          these changes are intended to provide you with a more effi-
          cient, flexible DECwindows Motif environment that is more in
          line with the OSF/Motif, MIT X11 Release 5 (X11 R5), and Common
          Desktop Environment (CDE) standards. For a full list of specific
          changes, enhancements, and corrections implemented in this re-
          lease, please refer to the Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
          Release Notes.

          Removal of Support for Adobe Display PostScript

          Adobe Systems Incorporated has discontinued support of the
          Display PostScript software available in previous versions of
          DECwindows Motif. As a result, the Display PostScript function-
          ality has been removed from DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6.
          This action has a varying degree of impact on the behavior
          of DECwindows Motif applications that used the Adobe Display
          PostScript software. For information about the effects of this
          action on specific DECwindows applications, please refer to the
          Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Release Notes.

          As an alternative to displaying PostScript files, OpenVMS Alpha
          customers may now view Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF)
          files. The Adobe Acrobat Viewer requires the Java[TM] Virtual
          Machine (JVM) and is available free of charge from the Adobe
          web site. A new document, Installing and Using the Adobe Acrobat
          Viewer (for Java) on OpenVMS Alpha Systems is now available from
          the OpenVMS web site:

             http://www.openvms.compaq.com/openvms/products/ips/pdf_viewer.html

          DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Kit Contents

          DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS CD-ROM Kit

          Your DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6 for OpenVMS CD-ROM kit
          contains the following items:

          o  This cover letter

          o  The Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS, Version 1.2-6 CD-ROM

 






             The CD-ROM contains the DECwindows Motif software, the
             DECwindows Motif User and Programming documentation kits,
             Release Notes, and Software Product Description (SPD).

          o  The following hardcopy documentation:

             o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Installation Guide

             o  Guide to the Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS CD-ROM

             o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Documentation Overview

             o  Getting Started with the New Desktop

          DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS TK50 and Magnetic Tape Kits

          Your DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6 for OpenVMS magnetic media
          kit contains the following items:

          o  This cover letter

          o  1 TK50 streaming tape or 1 9-track magnetic tape

             The magnetic media contains the DECwindows Motif software,
             the Release Notes, and the Software Product Description
             (SPD).

          o  The following hardcopy documentation:

             o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Installation Guide

             o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Documentation Overview

             o  Overview of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS

             o  Using DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS

             o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Applications Guide

             o  Managing DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Systems

          If you are receiving this kit as an update customer, your kit
          will only contain those hardcopy documents that are new or that
          have changed since the last release.

          Documentation

          The following documentation has been updated for Compaq DECwin-
          dows Motif for OpenVMS, Version 1.2-6:

          o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Release Notes (in .TXT
             format in saveset A on the media kit)

          o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Installation Guide

          o  Guide to the Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS CD-ROM Guide

          o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Documentation Overview

                                          2

 






          Software Requirements

          To run DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX, Version 1.2-6, you must
          be running VMS Version 5.5-2, OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2, OpenVMS
          VAX Version 7.1 or higher software.

          To run DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha, Version 1.2-6, you
          must be running OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2, or OpenVMS Alpha
          Version 7.1-2 or higher software.

          Memory Requirements

          On Alpha systems, the minimum memory required to install, boot,
          and log in is 64 MB; 128 MB is highly recommended for more
          robust performance.

          On VAX systems, the minimum memory required to install, boot,
          and log in is 16 MB; 32 is highly recommended for more robust
          performance.

          Release Notes

          Upgrade Problem with MultiNet[R] from Process Software

          A change made to DECW$TRANSPORT in DECwindows Motif, Version
          1.2-6 may require an update to MultiNet. Please ensure you have
          the current MultiNet software installed, and please contact
          Process Software for additional information on any necessary
          MultiNet updates.














                          ©2001  Compaq Computer Corporation

          COMPAQ, VAX, VMS, the Compaq logo, and the DIGITAL logo Regis-
          tered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

          Alpha, Bookreader, CDA, DECnet, and DECwindows are trademarks of
          Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P.

          Motif is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

          All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks or
          registered trademarks of their respective companies.

                                          3
