 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:   Compaq DECwindows Motif[R] for OpenVMS, Version 1.2-
6               SPD 42.19.07
This Software Product Description describes the following two prod-
ucts:

o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX, Version 1.2-6

o  Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha, Version 1.2-6

The Description section describes features common to both products.
Any differences in product features are explicitly indicated.

DESCRIPTION

The Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS (DECwindows Motif) desktop en-
vironment provides a graphical user interface to the Compaq OpenVMS
Alpha and OpenVMS VAX operating systems based on Motif. This inter-
face allows users to interact with OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX us-
ing a point-and-click technique. DECwindows Motif includes a set of
integrated desktop applications that demonstrate the ease of use of
this user interface and provides OpenVMS users with a base set of desk-
top tools.

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha includes the New Desktop environ-
ment which is derived from the Common Desktop Environment (CDE) tech-
nology. CDE provides and defines a consistent user interface for end
users and a consistent development environment for application devel-
opers across multiple platforms.

The graphical user interface that was provided in previous versions
of DECwindows Motif is still available and is referred to as the DECwin-
dows desktop. The DECwindows desktop is the only desktop available for
OpenVMS VAX systems. On OpenVMS Alpha systems, the installation pro-
cedure gives users the choice of installing one or both desktops and

                                                         April 2001

 

asks which desktop should be started by default. If both desktops are
installed, the user can switch desktops by restarting DECwindows.

Both the New Desktop and the DECwindows desktop are based on Motif.
The Motif graphical user interface is widely acknowledged as an in-
dustry standard.

The DECwindows desktop provides two window managers: the Motif Win-
dow Manager and the XUI Window Manager. Users can switch easily be-
tween the two window managers. The DECwindows desktop productivity ap-
plications use the Motif toolkit, but they also work with the XUI Win-
dow Manager.

The DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6 layered product provides both run-
time and programming support for the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit (Motif Re-
lease 1.2.5) and the X Consortium's specification for the X Window System[TM],
Version 11, Release 5 (X11R5), and provides run-time support for the
Motif Release 1.1.3 and XUI toolkits and X11R4.

Programs developed for the Motif Release 1.2.2 and 1.2.3 toolkits that
were provided in previous versions of DECwindows Motif can be run un-
der the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit. This means that users can run both XUI
and Motif applications including native applications and, on OpenVMS
Alpha systems, translated applications. (See the Translated Image En-
vironment section of this SPD for more information about running trans-
lated applications.)

X Window System standards supported as part of DECwindows Motif in-
clude the X11 network protocol, a base set of workstation fonts, the
C language binding for the Xlib programming library, and the C lan-
guage binding for the X Toolkit library.

Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library and display
server components provides the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operat-
ing systems with the ability to interoperate with other X11-compliant
systems in a distributed fashion.




                                 2

 

DECwindows Motif supports the client/server distribution inherent in
the X Window System. This client/server model allows X Window System
clients to run on one node and display output to another node, using
a trans- port to communicate between the nodes. The DECwindows Motif,
Version 1.2-6 product provides three transport interfaces: local shared
memory, DECnet, and TCP/IP (using the Compaq TCP/IP Services for Open-
VMS product or third-party products such as MultiNet[R]). Users can
also provide their own transport subsystems and transport interfaces.

To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows Motif based lay-
ered product or X application runs on or can communicate with DECwin-
dows Motif, consult the application's Software Product Description.

Basic Components

The DECwindows Motif user environment consists of four basic compo-
nents:

Session Manager

Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to a DECwindows
workstation. From Session Manager, users can start applications, cus-
tomize their session, and perform security management. Session Man-
ager also lets users specify the language of the user interface for
supported DECwindows applications if they have ordered, installed, and
are licensed to use the appropriate DECwindows Motif language vari-
ant kits.

For more information about which DECwindows Motif desktop applications
have translated user interfaces, refer to the SPD for that language
variant. The DECwindows Motif language variant SPDs also contain in-
formation on specific local hardware and software support provided in
the language variant kits.

Window Manager

The Window Manager lets users control the size and placement of win-
dows. Although, the Motif Window Manager is provided as the default
window manager; users can choose instead to work with the DECwindows

                                 3

 

XUI Window Manager. The window manager can be chosen by an individ-
ual user or by a system manager for an entire system.






































                                 4

 

FileView

FileView, a graphical interface to the OpenVMS file system, allows users
to navigate the file system and to perform operations on files.

DECterm

DECterm is a VT320 terminal emulator that provides workstation users
with a traditional character-cell interface for existing OpenVMS fea-
tures and applications. It supports ReGIS and sixel but is not fully
VT340 compatible. Programs written for VT52-, VT100-, VT220-, or VT320-
class terminals and using OpenVMS terminal driver features operate with-
out modification in this workstation window. DECterm also provides workstation-
oriented features, such as mouse-based cursor positioning, variable
screen sizes, and cutting and pasting of text between DECterm and other
DECwindows Motif applications.

Extended File Specifications

Extended File Specifications (EFS) optionally extends OpenVMS file names
and attributes to match those of Microsoft Windows. When coupled with
Compaq Advanced Server for OpenVMS, EFS allows OpenVMS systems to act
as fully functional file servers to Microsoft Windows clients. In ad-
dition, EFS allows OpenVMS system managers to perform OpenVMS system
management functions on Microsoft Windows files from an OpenVMS ac-
count. This functionality is intended for use primarily with Compaq
Advanced Server for OpenVMS, but it is possible to create and manip-
ulate EFS file names using a subset of DCL commands. For a listing of
these commands, refer to the OpenVMS Operating System documentation.

The New Desktop (Alpha only)

The New Desktop environment is derived from CDE (Common Desktop En-
vironment) technology. CDE provides a complete desktop environment based
on the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit (Motif Release 1.2.5) and X11R5.

The New Desktop focuses on the user interface and end-user aspects of
CDE technology. The New Desktop requires OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 or
higher.

                                 5

 

The installation procedure asks users to select the preferred desk-
top. This choice determines whether the DECwindows Motif login box or
the New Desktop login box appears at startup. After installation, the
user can switch desktops anytime.

Existing Motif Release 1.2.3 applications do not need to be recompiled
or relinked to run in the CDE environment. In addition, it is possi-
ble to achieve basic integration of existing applications into CDE with-
out making changes to the application source code.

The following CDE components are included in the New Desktop:

o  Applications

   -  dtlogin: Login Manager, dtgreet

   -  dthello: Screen between Login Manager and Window Manager

   -  dtscreen: Screen saver displays

   -  dtpad: Editor

   -  dtclock: Clock

   -  dtsession: Session Manager

   -  dtstyle: Style Manager

   -  dtwm: Window Manager, Control Panel

   -  dtfile: File Manager, Application Manager

   -  dtcalc: Calculator

   -  dticon: Icon Editor

   -  dtcreate: Action database entry creation tool

   -  dthelpview: Help Viewer

   -  Security options: New Style Manager control for setting and re-
      viewing authorized users allowed to display applications on the
      local workstation

   -  Keyboard Selection dialog box

   -  Input Methods Selection dialog box

                                 6

 

   -  Save/restore support for DECwindows applications

   -  dthelpgen: utility for creating a help volume for display from
      the Front Panel Help Viewer

   -  dthelptag: compiles HelpTag source files into a run-time help
      file

   -  dximageview

o  Libraries

   -  dthelp: Help utility functions

   -  dtsvc: Assorted utility routines

   -  dtwidget: CDE custom widgets

The following CDE components are replaced by existing DECwindows Mo-
tif applications:

o  dtmail - Replaced by DECwindows Mail

o  dtcm - Replaced by DECwindows Calendar

o  dtterm - Replaced by DECwindows DECterm

o  Print Manager - Replaced by DECwindows Print widget

The following CDE components are not included in the New Desktop:

o  Application Builder

o  ToolTalk - Inter-Client Communications Manual (ICCM) transfer mech-
   anisms are implemented to emulate certain ToolTalk functions in-
   ternally, but ToolTalk messaging services APIs are not available
   to develop against.

o  Windowing Korn shell

o  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) support

Desktop Productivity Applications

                                 7

 

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS provides a set of integrated desktop ap-
plications that employ a common look and feel to help users easily mas-
ter their computing environment.

The following desktop applications are available with DECwindows Mo-
tif, Version 1.2-6:

o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that are dis-
   tributed and stored on line.

o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator.

o  Calendar - A personal time management system.

o  Cardfiler - A desktop card index or flip file, similar to an on-
   line address or phone book.

o  Clock - An analog and/or digital clock with an alarm.

o  CDA Viewer - A tool for reading documents containing text, graph-
   ics, and image data on DECwindows workstations.

o  Computer-based instruction - An online tutorial for novice Motif
   users; users can learn how to use the mouse and perform other sim-
   ple operations with Motif.

o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the OpenVMS Mail facility.

o  Message window - A window that displays system messages, such as
   new mail notification or system manager messages.

o  Notepad - A simple text editor.

o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor.

o  Print Screen - A tool for capturing images on the screen. Images
   can be printed directly or saved to a file.

o  Puzzle - A game of numbered puzzle tiles.

o  DECsound - An easy-to-use application that lets you play recorded
   messages, record audio messages, mail recorded messages, and in-
   clude recorded audio messages in documents. DECsound is available
   for use on TURBOchannel systems only.

                                 8

 

Web Browser Support

The web browsers available for use with DECwindows Motif vary depend-
ing on hardware platform and OpenVMS Operating System version.

Each DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-3, 1.2-4, 1.2-5, and 1.2-6 license
permits the use of Netscape Navigator for OpenVMS on a single CPU. Other
options are also available. For additional information on web browser
options and availability, refer to the Compaq DECwindows Motif for Open-
VMS Release Notes.

Support for MIT Utility Programs

Several MIT utility programs, bitmaps, and the Miscellaneous Utili-
ties Library from the MIT X11 Release 4 and 5 distribution are included
in the DECW$UTILS directory of the DECwindows Motif layered product.
The sources and images for a subset of these MIT utilities are included.
The X Print (XPR) utility, which allows users to capture and print the
contents of windows, is provided with DECwindows Motif.

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Online Help System

The DECwindows Motif help system uses the familiar Bookreader inter-
face to display help and retrieve help information. This help system
includes a table of contents and cross-referencing through the use of
hotspots.

The DECwindows desktop applications use the DECwindows Motif help sys-
tem. When invoking help, either from a help menu or from context-sensitive
help, Bookreader is started and a help topic is displayed.

Local Language Support

DECwindows Motif is available in several local languages. Please con-
tact your local Compaq office for the latest information about avail-
ability of options and supported multilingual configurations. For more
details on the language variants, refer to the specific language-variant
SPDs. Refer also to the Ordering Information and Software Licensing
sections of this SPD.

Programming Support

                                 9

 

The DECwindows Motif environment includes an extensive set of program-
ming libraries and tools for use by application developers. The li-
braries are provided in the form of shareable images. While CDE Mo-
tif 1.0 (Motif Release 1.2.5) programming support is provided, Motif
Release 1.1.3, Release 1.2.2, Release 1.2.3, and XUI programming sup-
port are not.

Three categories of libraries are provided:

o  Standard X Window System libraries, such as Xlib and the Intrin-
   sics (X Toolkit)

o  CDE Motif 1.0 Toolkit support for developing applications using the
   Motif user interface style

o  Compaq value-added libraries that give users additional capabil-
   ities:

   -  Compaq (Digital) Extensions to Motif (DXm)

   -  CDA support

   -  Porting tools for changing applications from the XUI interface
      to the Motif user interface

Components from each of these areas can be used in any combination to
address the needs of applications. These components can also use the
tools from a variety of programming languages.

Motif language bindings are provided for the following programming lan-
guages:

o  Compaq Fortran for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

o  Compaq Pascal for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

o  Compaq C for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

In addition, C header files supplied by The Open Group have been mod-
ified to work with DEC C++. Pascal and Fortran bindings are included
in the DECwindows Motif kit; Motif "strongly typed" language bindings
for Ada are available in the Compaq Ada for OpenVMS (VAX and Alpha)
layered product.

                                10

 

For additional programming support, the
DECW$EXAMPLES directory includes the following programming examples:

o  Motif widget set examples

o  X11R4 and X11R5 programming examples (Xlib examples)

o  Compaq supplied examples

Programming Support Libraries

The following sections describe the programming support libraries.




























                                11

 

X Window System (X) Programming Support

The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib) provided
by DECwindows Motif supplies basic resource management (windows, color
maps, input devices) and bitmap graphics services. It defines a map-
ping of the X network protocol to a procedure library.

X Window System Intrinsics Support

The X Window System Intrinsics library support contains the X Consor-
tium Release 5 (R5) Intrinsics (X Toolkit). The X Toolkit provides low-
level routines that allow the creation of user interface objects called
widgets.

Motif User Interface Programming Support

Motif is the user interface for Compaq and third-party software tai-
lored for the DECwindows environment. It establishes the conventions
and styles for graphical applications. Applications use Motif compo-
nents to build user interfaces that look and feel alike.

The OSF/Motif Style Guide, an industry standard reference manual avail-
able from Prentice-Hall, describes the principles, philosophy, and com-
ponents used to build consistent and well-integrated Motif applica-
tions. In addition, the DECwindows Companion to the OSF/Motif Style
Guide provides additional information concerning the style of Motif
user interfaces. This manual also provides guidelines concerning ad-
ditional features that Compaq provides in the DECwindows Motif offer-
ing, and includes a Compaq preferred terminology list for a number of
supported languages for developers producing Motif applications in these
languages.

The Motif style concepts are implemented by the Motif Toolkit. DECwin-
dows Motif contains both the Motif and XUI Toolkits; application run-
time support is provided for CDE Motif 1.0 (Motif Release 1.2.5) and
Motif Release 1.2.3, Release 1.2.2, and Release 1.1.3 Toolkits, as well
as for the XUI Toolkit. The Motif toolkit is based on the X Toolkit
Intrinsics and contains three components:


                                12

 

o  Motif widgets and gadgets for implementing common user interface
   objects, such as scroll bars, menus, and push buttons

o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for per-
   forming common tasks, such as cutting and pasting

o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface definition files
   and creating widgets and gadgets based on the contents of the def-
   inition files

The Motif Toolkit is used in conjunction with the Motif User Inter-
face Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface definition files pro-
duced by this compiler contain the data that describes the form of DECwin-
dows applications. These UIL files also allow Motif Toolkit widget and
gadget information, such as menu item labels, to be stored separately
from the toolkit and application run-time code. This capability al-
lows application developers to prototype and easily modify user in-
terface designs, to separate form from function in applications, and
to support translatable products that do not require recompilation of
source files.

Compaq Extensions to Motif

The DECwindows Motif product adds value to the standard Motif Toolkit
by including a library that contains a set of Compaq developed wid-
gets and run-time routines not available from The Open Group. The fol-
lowing widgets provide a common DECwindows interface for some commonly
used DECwindows functions:

o  A Color Mix widget that enables users to select and mix colors us-
   ing a variety of color models.

o  A Compound String Text widget that provides support for interna-
   tional character sets as well as left-to-right character sets.

o  A Help widget that allows applications to display appropriate Help
   text in a consistent manner. This widget is provided for backward
   compatibility with DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Version 1.0 and has
   been superseded by the DECwindows Motif help system.

                                13

 

o  A Print widget that allows applications to print files in a con-
   sistent manner.

o  A Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) widget used by applications
   to display hierarchical information.

The run-time routines include three DECwindows Motif help system calls
that enable users to display online help files using Bookreader.

Translated Image Environment (Alpha only)

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha provides an array of services to
allow the operation of programs that have undergone binary transla-
tion from DECwindows Motif Version 1.1 or XUI VAX images. These pro-
grams can perform virtually all user-mode functions on DECwindows Mo-
tif for OpenVMS Alpha systems. However, DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
Alpha shareable images that are used with translated images are dif-
ferent from and incompatible with the shareable images used for na-
tive images. Native and translated images that use DECwindows Motif
for OpenVMS Alpha software cannot be used together in a process.

Without requiring special source code, the Translated Image Environ-
ment (TIE) automatically resolves differences between the VAX and Al-
pha architectures, including floating-point registers, condition codes,
exception handling, asynchronous system traps, and so on.

The Translated Image Environment included with DECwindows Motif for
OpenVMS Alpha is sufficient to run images that have been translated
elsewhere.

XUI to Motif Porting Tools

Compaq provides tools to aid programmers in porting applications to
Motif. These tools replace occurrences of XUI names in the input source
file with the correct Motif names.

CDA Programming Support



                                14

 

The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can use to
create, read, and write files containing compound text, graphics, and
imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for recording this infor-
mation on disk, a medium for interchange of this data between appli-
cations, and an intermediate form from which high-resolution print-
able graphics data can be generated.

Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

Beginning with DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6, the Display PostScript
system provided with previous versions of DECwindows Motif is no longer
available. Refer to the Compaq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Release
Notes for additional information.

DECwindows X11 Display Server for OpenVMS Extension Support

The X11 server protocol is implemented on both the OpenVMS VAX and the
OpenVMS Alpha operating systems. As of OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0, the
DECwindows X11 display server on OpenVMS VAX supports the full X11 pro-
tocol and contains significant portions of the Release 4 (R4) and Re-
lease 5 (R5) code base, plus some optional extensions. By contrast,
the DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS Alpha is a direct port
of the X Window System Version 11, Release 6 (X11R6) display server,
plus some optional extensions.

The DECwindows X11 display server is an optional part of the OpenVMS
VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating system kits. The DECwindows X11 dis-
play server, including device drivers and fonts, can be selected for
installation during the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating sys-
tem installation procedures.

The DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS supports the following
extensions. Client libraries for these extensions are included in the
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha layered products.

o  AccessX (Alpha only): "AccessX" as defined by Compaq. Provides key-
   board enhancements to the X server for people with movement impair-
   ments.


                                15

 

o  MITmisc: "MIT-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" as defined by the X Consortium.
   Allows users to determine and to set the server bug compatibility
   mode.

o  MIT-SHM (Alpha only): "MIT-SHM" as defined by the X Consortium. Pro-
   vides the ability to share memory XImages between the client and
   server.

o  Multibuffering: "Multi-Buffering" as defined by the X Consortium.
   Allows the display server to provide support for multiple-buffered
   images.

o  Shape (Alpha only): "SHAPE" as defined by the X Consortium. Allows
   programs to create windows with shapes other than the standard rect-
   angle.

o  X Imaging Extension (Version 3): "XIE" as defined by Compaq and reg-
   istered with the X Consortium. Allows the display server to pro-
   vide hardware or software support for imaging operations for ISL,
   the Image Services Library.

o  XTRAP: "DEC-XTRAP" as defined by Compaq and registered with the X
   Consortium. Allows the display server to provide support for hands-
   off testing programs like DTM, the Compaq Digital Test Manager.

Documentation for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS

The DECwindows Motif documentation consists of a user documentation
set and a programmer documentation set. Both sets of documentation ap-
ply to DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha.

The programmer documentation is a combination of industry standard ref-
erence materials and documentation produced by Compaq that is specific
to DECwindows Motif. Only the documentation produced by Compaq is shipped
as part of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS, Version 1.2-6 kit.

The documentation is available both in hardcopy and on CD-ROM. If you
are ordering DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS on a CD-ROM, you will re-
ceive both the user documentation and programmer documentation pro-
duced by Compaq in Bookreader format. If you are ordering DECwindows

                                16

 

Motif on magnetic tape media, you will receive only the user documen-
tation in hardcopy. The programmer documentation must be ordered sep-
arately.

CDE Documentation

The Common Desktop Environment (CDE) manuals are provided in support
of the New Desktop. These manuals are included in the DECwindows Mo-
tif CD-ROM kit in HTML format and can be read using a browser. They
are not part of the DECwindows Motif hardcopy documentation set.

Please note that not all the information in the CDE documentation and
reference pages applies to the New Desktop. For an accurate descrip-
tion of the New Desktop, see the Getting Started With the New Desk-
top manual.

For more information about the DECwindows Motif documentation, see Com-
paq DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Documentation Overview.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

DECwindows Motif runs on any of the supported processors but requires
either a workstation, a Microsoft Windows based PC, a Macintosh[R],
or an X terminal for display. These display devices must be running
an X Window System, Version 11, Release 4 (R4), Release 5 (R5) or Re-
lease 6 (R6) compliant display server.

Supported VAX and Alpha Processors

DECwindows Motif supports all the VAX and Alpha processors listed in
the Compaq OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha Software Prod-
uct Description (SPD 25.01.xx), with the exception of those listed in
the Unsupported Processors section.

Unsupported Processors

For performance reasons, Compaq DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-6 for Open-
VMS VAX is not supported on the following processors:

   MicroVAX II
   MicroVAX 2000

                                17

 

   VAXstation II
   VAXstation 2000
   VAXstation 8000
   VAX-11/725
   VAX-11/730
   VAX-11/750
   VAX-11/780
   VAX-11/782
   VAX-11/785

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1)

For Alpha Systems

Disk space required     317,500 blocks
for DECwindows Motif
installation

Disk space required     288,500 blocks
for DECwindows Motif
use (permanent)

To support full OpenVMS Alpha and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
Alpha, a system disk with at least 550 MB is recommended. However, a
subset of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Instal-
lation of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha, Version 1.2-6 gives the
user the option to install any or all of the following components:

o  Run-time support (base kit) - 66,000 blocks. This section provides
   support for running DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha applications
   on Alpha compute servers and is a required part of the installa-
   tion.

o  New Desktop - 47,000 blocks. This is an optional component that al-
   lows use of the New Desktop environment. It includes applications
   and application programming interfaces (APIs).




                                18

 

o  DECwindows desktop - 21,000 blocks. This component is also optional,
   but either the New Desktop or the DECwindows desktop should be in-
   stalled to create a usable system. The DECwindows desktop is the
   user interface that was included in previous versions of DECwin-
   dows Motif and includes the DECwindows Session Manager, FileView,
   and the Motif Window Manager.

o  Programming support - 63,000 blocks. This number includes support
   for the C, Pascal, and Fortran programming languages and for the
   New Desktop. If only a subset of languages is installed, the amount
   of disk space required will be less.

o  Programming examples - 52,000 blocks. This number includes exam-
   ple audio files, the DECwindows desktop, and the New Desktop. If
   only a subset of example files is installed, the amount of disk space
   required will be less.

o  Translated Image Environment - 40,000 blocks.

For VAX Systems

Disk space required     119,000 blocks
for DECwindows Motif
installation

Disk space required     108,000 blocks
for DECwindows Motif
use (permanent)

To support full OpenVMS VAX and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX,
a system disk with at least 300 MB is recommended. However, a subset
of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Installation of
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX, Version 1.2-6 gives the user the op-
tion of installing any or all of the following components:

o  DECwindows Motif run-time support files (base kit) - 82,000 blocks.
   This section provides support for running DECwindows Motif for Open-
   VMS VAX applications on VAX compute servers, and is a required part
   of the installation. It includes the DECwindows desktop applica-
   tions and libraries.

                                19

 

o  Programming support - 13,500 blocks. This number includes support
   for the C, Pascal, and Fortran programming languages. If only a sub-
   set of languages is installed, the amount of disk space required
   will be less.

o  Programming examples - 13,000 blocks. This number includes exam-
   ple audio files and the DECwindows desktop. If only a subset of ex-
   ample files is installed, the amount of disk space required will
   be less.

These block sizes refer to the disk space required on the system disk.
The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on your sys-
tem environment, configuration, and software options (for example, DECwindows
Motif programming examples).

Memory Requirements

For Alpha Systems

The minimum required to install, boot, and log in is 64 MB; 128 MB is
highly recommended for more robust performance. Remote execution of
applications requires an additional system that runs the application
while the application is displayed on the local workstation.

The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS Alpha systems running DECwin-
dows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha depend on system configuration and win-
dow and applications usage.

Please note that memory requirements may change in future releases of
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS.

For VAX Systems

The minimum memory required to install, boot, and log in is 16 MB; 32
MB is highly recommended for more robust performance. Remote execu-
tion of applications requires an additional system that runs the ap-
plication while the application is displayed on the local workstation.



                                20

 

The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS VAX systems running DECwin-
dows Motif for OpenVMS VAX depend on system configuration and window
and applications usage.

Please note that memory requirements may change in future releases of
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX.

Support for Multiple-Screen Configuration

On Alpha systems, a multiple-screen configuration consists of a sin-
gle workstation that supports multiple graphics options. A graphics
option consists of a graphics controller and a monitor. Please note
that in a multiple-screen configuration, all the graphics cards must
be of the same model. For additional information on workstations that
support multiple-screens, please contact your local Compaq office or
refer to the product information available at:

   http://www.compaq.com

Miscellaneous Supported Peripherals

VSXXX-AB      Tablet (replaces mouse)

VSXXX-JA      Audio headset

VSXXX-AA      Mouse

VSXXX-FA      Mouse

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This product is fully supported without restrictions when installed
on any valid and licensed OpenVMS Cluster configuration.

Note: VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the OpenVMS Clus-
ter Software Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and include
CI, Ethernet, and mixed-interconnect configurations.



                                21

 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS, Version 1.2-6 is supported on the fol-
lowing operating systems:

o  OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2, 7.1-2, 7.2-1, or 7.3

o  VMS Version 5.5-2; OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2, 7.1, 7.2, or 7.3

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

o  Compaq PATHWORKS 32 (SPD 56.33.xx)

o  Compaq TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS (SPD 46.46.xx)

o  Compaq DECnet-Plus for OpenVMS (SPD 25.03.xx)

o  Compaq DECnet for OpenVMS (Phase IV) (SPD 48.48.xx)

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
of this product may be different from the requirements for the cur-
rent version.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

The DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6 software is available as a stan-
dalone layered product on the following media:

o  CD-ROM (VAX and Alpha)

o  TK50 streaming tape (VAX)

o  9-track magnetic tape (VAX)

Note: DECwindows Motif, Version 1.2-6 is the final release that will
be available on TK50 streaming tape and 9-track magnetic tape media.


                                22

 

In addition, this product is available as part of the OpenVMS Soft-
ware Product Library (Consolidated Software Distribution) on CD-ROM.


ORDERING INFORMATION

For Alpha Systems

Software Licenses:

Personal Use: QL-XA1A*-2B
Unlimited Use: QL-MV4A*-AA

Software Media:

Binaries and Bookreader user and programmer documentation (CD-ROM):
QA-MV4AB-H8

For VAX Systems

Software Licenses:

Personal Use: QL-XA1A*-2B
Unlimited Use: QL-XA1A*-AA

Software Media:

Binaries and Bookreader user and programmer documentation (CD-ROM):
QA-XA1AB-H8

Binaries and hardcopy user documentation (TK50 or magtape): QA-XA1AA-
H*

Hardcopy Documentation (VAX and Alpha)

User Documentation: QA-XA1AA-GZ

Programmer Documentation: QA-XA1AB-GZ

DECwindows Motif Language Variants

Each language variant kit runs on both VAX or Alpha systems.

                                23

 

Software Licenses:

Personal Use: (VAX and Alpha) QL-XDD**-2B
Unlimited Use: (Alpha): QL-08U**-**
Unlimited Use: (VAX): QL-XDD**-**

Software Media:

QA-XDD*A-H8

Hardcopy Documentation:

QA-XDD**-GZ

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
about Compaq's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Com-
paq office.

Compaq provides a DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS license Product Autho-
rization Key (PAK) with the purchase of a VAX or Alpha workstation.

Media and online documentation kits are not provided with Factory In-
stalled Software (FIS) systems.

Licensing of Language Variants

The language variants of DECwindows are available as options to the
DECwindows Motif product. Language variants are supported only when
the version number of the language variant matches the version num-
ber of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS.

Some restrictions apply on language combinations. Refer to the rel-
evant language variant SPD for details on supported language combi-
nations in each country.

                                24

 

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS language variants are generally supported
only in countries where the language is an official language. However,
for some countries this may vary. Consult the relevant language vari-
ant SPD or your local sales office to check for the availability of
additional language support in your country or location.

License Management Facility Support

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supports the OpenVMS License Management
Facility. License units for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS are allocated
on an Unlimited System Use and Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use
license allows one identified individual to use the layered product.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to
the Compaq OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha Software Prod-
uct Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha
operating system documentation.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

This software product is provided by Compaq with a 90-day conformance
warranty in accordance with the Compaq warranty terms applicable to
the license purchase.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Compaq. For more in-
formation, contact your local Compaq office.

THIRD-PARTY LICENSING

The Open Group, Inc., License Terms and Agreement

Compaq Computer Corporation certifies that DECwindows Motif for Open-
VMS, Version 1.2-6 is CDE Motif 1.0 (Motif Release 1.2.5) validated
as tested with the Motif Validation Test Suite Release 1.1 with no waivers.

© 2001 Compaq Computer Corporation


                                25

 

COMPAQ and the Compaq logo Registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Of-
fice.

DECnet and OpenVMS are trademarks of Compaq Information Technologies
Group, L.P.

Microsoft, Windows, and Windows NT are trademarks of Microsoft Cor-
poration.

Motif, UNIX and The Open Group are trademarks of The Open Group.

All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks or regis-
tered trademarks of their respective companies.

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Compaq required for
possession, use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212,
Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and Tech-
nical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Compaq shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omis-
sions contained herein. The information in this document is subject
to change without notice.

















                                26

 









































                                27
