 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  Compaq DECwrite for OpenVMS,            SPD 25.F7.06
               American English and British English, Ver-
               sion 3.1A

This SPD describes Compaq DECwrite for OpenVMS American English and
British English, which is available for the OpenVMS Alpha and Open-
VMS VAX platforms. All information applies to both language variants
and both platforms unless otherwise indicated.

DESCRIPTION

DECwrite is a compound document processing application that combines
word processing, publishing, color text and graphics creation, data-
driven charting, image integration, audio annotation, and LiveLink con-
nections to supported applications and data.

DECwrite is particularly suitable for use in collaborative authoring
environments. Its multiplatform coverage, multilingual support, ease
of use, and advanced publishing features make it the perfect document
processing solution for large organizations. With DECwrite, users can
create a common "house style" and apply it to many documents. This en-
sures that in-house standards are adhered to and that consistent re-
sults and quality are obtained in print.

DECwrite emulates WordPerfect, Microsoft Word and WPS-PLUS keyboard
conventions. This makes DECwrite easy to learn and makes it easy for
users to move between desktop applications.

FEATURES



                                                       January 2002

 

User Interface

DECwrite presents functions through a graphical user interface. Func-
tions are represented through menu selections and an icon-oriented func-
tion bar.

DECwrite offers users a choice of short menus that contain the most
frequently used features, or full menus that contain all features. The
short menus contain the top-level items such as File, Edit, Format,
Insert, Page, Draw, Utilities, and Options. Users can switch between
short and full menus. The menus also display the keyboard equivalents
that allow users to use these features from the keyboard.

The function bar provides "point and click" access to functions such
as style selection, font family, text size and alignment, language,
application of plain, bold, italic, and underline renditions, para-
graph and line spacing, page layout, color selection, table insertion,
conditional content, and audio annotation. The function bar is dynamic
and tracks the attributes at the current cursor position.

DECwrite also provides five context-sensitive pop-up menus. These menus
pop up near the pointer position for easy access. The pop-up menus in-
clude the most frequently used editing features for text and graph-
ics, as well as the entries for the most commonly used styles, tables,
and objects.

DECwrite supports multilingual installations and provides language switch-
ing via the DECwindows Motif Session Manager. Selecting a language in
the Session Manager automatically sets the user interface language for
DECwrite.

The user interface also features the following:

o  Rulers with tracking and grids for easy placement of text blocks
   and objects.

o  Snap to ruler on or off.

o  Status display boxes that display information such as the current
   page number, first and last page, current style, text block con-
   nections, and graphic object size.

                                 2

 

o  A vertical and horizontal scroll bar.

DECwrite emulates several keyboard styles including GOLD KEY for WPS-
PLUS compatibility, WordPerfect and Microsoft Word; EVE, EDT, and EMACS
for technical users. There is also a DECwrite-specific keyboard in-
terface.

Help

DECwrite provides task-oriented help, context-sensitive help, and ref-
erence help. In addition, an online tutorial, which aids the user in
learning DECwrite concepts, can be accessed from the Help menu. These
help features accelerate the learning process for new users of DECwrite.

Editor

DECwrite includes a full word-processing editor with functions such
as select, cut, copy, paste, undo, redo, and navigation. DECwrite has
sophisticated search and replace capabilities including the ability
to search for carriage returns, special characters, patterns, and ar-
bitrary white space.

Advanced editorial features such as redlining, change bars, and change
pages make DECwrite an appropriate application for documentation and
publication groups.

DECwrite allows the user to create exception dictionaries for words
that would not commonly appear in a standard dictionary. The excep-
tion dictionaries can be kept locally or used globally in a DECwrite
workgroup.

Hyphenation can be controlled with discretionary hyphens, or disabled
on a paragraph by paragraph basis. DECwrite also supports multiple lan-
guage hyphenation. For example, French and German may be used within
the same document. Supported language hyphenation includes: Danish,
Dutch, English (American and British), Finnish, French, German, Ital-
ian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish.



                                 3

 

DECwrite allows users to verify and correct spelling in multiple lan-
guages. For example, when French and German are used within a docu-
ment, the spelling of the words in those languages is checked if the
French and German optional lexicons are added to the system. (See the
OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section for a list of the optional language lexi-
cons.)

In addition, the user can verify and correct word usage and access an
electronic thesaurus (American English only).

Color

DECwrite allows the user to apply color to text, tables and graphic
objects. Users can create color style files and print documents on color
PostScript printers.

Rulers/Tabs

DECwrite provides left, right, center, and decimal tab alignment. Users
can modify the current ruler, which affects consecutive paragraphs that
have the same ruler. Starting a new ruler affects the current and all
following consecutive paragraphs that have the same ruler. Rulers can
also be saved as part of a paragraph style.

Tables

DECwrite supports cell-based table editing, allowing users to create
tables that can include text, graphics, or numeric data. Users can ap-
ply paragraph styles and format text in a table and can apply colors
to the table outline, background, and content. Rows and columns can
be joined and split, added or deleted. Contents can be aligned left,
right, or center within the table cell, and copy, cut, paste, and clear
functions can be performed. ASCII text can be imported into a table
and a new table is created if necessary. Tables can be split over mul-
tiple pages, with table headers automatically inherited from one page
to the next.




                                 4

 

DECwrite provides predefined table styles. Users can also define and
store their own table styles.

Mail Merge

With DECwrite's mail merge function, users can create form letters us-
ing variables inside a form document. A records file containing the
variables can be either a text file in WPS-PLUS or tabular format, or
a DDIF (Digital Document Interchange Format) file. The mail merge func-
tion allows users to automatically print unique documents or save them
as DECwrite documents.

Variables

DECwrite supports the definition of variables to streamline the cre-
ation of documents with common elements, such as document number, au-
thor, revision number, company name, etc. When the variable defini-
tion changes, all locations in a document are updated. Variables may
be defined in a style file for shared use.

Conditional Content

DECwrite allows users to define conditions that control which parts
of a document are to be displayed. This enables writers to create a
generic document that can be tailored to a specific audience by in-
cluding or excluding the conditional text.

Audio Content

Audio content can be recorded and played within a DECwrite document
from an audio-capable workstation. The ability to include audio con-
tent provides users with a simple means of annotating a document.








                                 5

 

Tables of Contents

DECwrite allows users to generate a table of contents automatically,
using the titles in a document. Users can insert a table of contents
anywhere in a document and edit or regenerate it at any time.

The table of contents entries are formatted based on the title styles
of the entries, and the overall format of the table of contents is de-
termined by the table of contents style.

Index

DECwrite allows users to generate an index made up of entries that they
specify as they create the document. The index can contain up to four
levels of index entries. For each level, users can specify a sorting
order (for example, for numbers or special characters). Users can edit
or regenerate the index at any time.

Cross-References

Users can insert cross-references in DECwrite documents (for example,
"See Figure 3 on page 45"). Users can make cross-references to the la-
bel, content, or page number of a title, paragraph, or list item any-
where in the document.

LiveLink Connections

DECwrite documents can include LiveLink connections to supported ap-
plications and their data. Data that is linked to DECwrite is displayed
as part of the DECwrite document. If the data changes, the DECwrite
document can be updated automatically to reflect the changes in the
data. The user can also specify that LiveLink connections are updated
only when desired. The user can modify or delete LiveLink connections
to applications at any time.






                                 6

 

DECwrite can link to data anywhere in the network as long as the user
has the privileges required to access the data. LiveLink connections
can be specified with several file location types. These include: with
the document, in a private library, in a network library, and in a sys-
tem library. These file location types tell DECwrite where to look for
the linked data and how the compound document should be packaged for
mailing.

Applications to which users can insert LiveLink connections include
the following:

o  DECpaint (included with DECwindows Motif)

o  DECchart (included with DECwrite)

o  Equation Editor (included with DECwrite)

o  DECsound (included with DECwindows Motif)

Data Links

It is possible to insert LiveLink connections to other DECwrite doc-
uments, to DDIF pictures and DDIF images, and to final form data (for
example, Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) files).

Mailing DECwrite Documents

When you use DECwindows Motif Mail or the OpenVMS Mail Utility to mail
a DECwrite document, the mail software creates one file containing the
DECwrite document and any files linked to the document and sends this
file to the recipient. The recipient can unpack the file to recover
the DECwrite document and all files linked to the document.

Export to Bookreader

DECwrite can be used as an authoring tool for the creation of online
documentation when used with the Export to Bookreader function. DECwrite
will create topic or page-based books with graphics, tables and foot-
notes as in-line content or as pop-ups in a separate window. The DECwrite

                                 7

 

table of contents and index are used for Bookreader navigation and all
cross references become Bookreader hot spots.

Text Styles

DECwrite allows users to create text styles for the following types
of elements:

o  Paragraphs

o  Titles

o  Lists

o  Tables

o  Footnotes

o  Table of contents

o  Indexes

Users have full formatting control through the use of styles. By mod-
ifying style attributes, the user can create other styles such as ab-
stracts and subheads.

Users can copy and then modify the style files supplied with DECwrite,
or they can create new style files of their own. Style files can be
used in any number of documents. In addition, style files can be shared
among users.

This method of formatting under style file control allows the docu-
ment content to remain separate from the document format. The user has
total control over document appearance. Style information is entered
into fill-in-the-blank dialog boxes. The user may change point size,
fonts, line spacing, justification modes, color, and other text at-
tributes.



                                 8

 

Document appearance is automatically modified when the user changes
the definition of a style. A user can give an element a new style at
any time. For example, a user can change all main heads into subheads
by simply applying a subhead style. Styles may be changed globally,
which makes DECwrite an appropriate product for long documents.

When local changes are desired, such as underlining a word, the user
can use the function bar, the underline key, the format menu, or the
text attributes box which lists a variety of rendition attributes such
as font, point size, color, and slant. This allows the user to make
quick one-time changes in cases where global style changes would be
inappropriate.

Page Composition and Pagination

DECwrite provides a variety of layout functions for text, pages, and
documents. Text styles are discussed separately (see the Text Styles
section of this SPD). Pages are formatted using page styles, which can
be defined for single or double-sided pages. Any number of page styles
can be used in a document. Items that appear repetitively throughout
the document (for example, running headers and footers, logos, and page
or column rules) can be stored as part of page styles, and are auto-
matically placed on each page.

Users can create the page layouts of a document using a dialogue box
or they can interactively create layouts for specific pages. DECwrite
automatically links text flows from column to column and from page to
page, or users can connect text flows in a non-contiguous fashion for
documents such as newsletters.

The formatting capabilities provided with DECwrite include:

o  Automatic pagination with automatic page numbering

o  Running headers and footers that can contain graphics or text

o  Up to 100 columns per page with the ability to freely mix a vari-
   able number of columns per page (for example, two columns at the
   top of a page and three at the bottom)

                                 9

 

o  Hyphenation according to dictionary or algorithm

o  Alignment (justified, ragged-right, ragged-left, or centered)

o  Color text

o  Color outline and fill for graphics

o  Conditional content that enables parts of a document to be hidden
   or revealed depending on a selected condition, allowing users to
   create multiple variations of a single document

o  Vertical justification

o  Widow and orphan control

o  Manual kerning

o  Font scaling from 2 to 300 points, in .01-point increments

o  Support for installation of additional fonts

o  Support for the ISO-Latin 1 character set

o  Macros for user-defined functions

o  Hierarchical lists and sublists with automatic labeling and user-
   controlled indents

o  Automatic numbering of sections, chapters, headings, paragraphs,
   lists, sublists, footnotes, and appendixes

o  Automatic cross-referencing

o  Numeric references for footnotes, automatic superscripting of foot-
   note references

o  Side notes

o  Redlining, change bars, and change pages

o  Spell Corrector

o  Usage Alert and Electronic Thesaurus (for American English only)

o  Generation of table of contents and index (up to four levels of in-
   dex entries)

                                10

 

o  Right, left, center, and decimal tabs, with or without user-defined
   leaders

o  Equation editor

o  Ability to include Encapsulated PostScript files

o  LiveLink connections to other supported applications

o  Ability to mix page sizes and portrait and landscape pages in a doc-
   ument

Link to Document

DECwrite includes a Link to Document feature. This allows the user to
link files together to form a complete document. Chapters and pages
are correctly numbered and a table of contents or index for the en-
tire document can be generated. This feature allows users to work on
different sections of a document and then easily combine those into
a consecutively numbered document. This feature allows DECwrite to be
used in a multi-author environment.

Graphics

DECwrite supports object-oriented color graphic editing, allowing users
to draw the following objects: lines (constrained or at any angle),
square, rounded square, rectangle, rounded rectangle, circle, ellipse,
arc, polygon, and polyline. Arcs can be open or closed, pie wedge or
chord. Objects can be colored, filled with patterns or shaded. Object
outlines can be solid, dotted, dashed, colored, or patterned. Objects
can also be drawn in a wide variety of line weights. DECwrite also pro-
vides a freehand drawing tool.

Annotation arrows (or lines or polylines) with filled, open, double,
or single arrowheads can be easily applied to drawings or on top of
images. Text labels can be placed next to the arrows to identify parts
of a drawing.



                                11

 

All graphic objects, including text labels, can be sized and scaled
to a percentage or to exact dimensions. During scaling, the user can
choose whether or not to scale line widths. Alignment, duplication,
and space distribution features allow the user to easily create di-
agrams, schematics, and flowcharts.

Graphics can be placed anywhere within a document, including in ta-
ble cells, running headers, and running footers. Graphics can be placed
in frames that can be anchored to various reference points in text or
to a particular place on a page, including the margin.

Clip Art

DECwrite contains a large selection of clip art files in DDIF image,
DDIF picture, and Encapsulated PostScript format. Users can edit the
DDIF picture clip art in DECwrite. DDIF image clip art can be edited
using a bitmap editor such as DECwindows Paint.

DECchart

The DECchart component is an easy-to-use and easy-to-learn data chart-
ing application that allows users to create professional business graph-
ics for printing or for inclusion in DECwrite documents. The user spec-
ifies the data to be charted and the desired chart style, and DECchart
automatically generates the chart. DECchart features include:

o  Nine predefined chart types: Bar, Column, Line, Pie, Area, Scat-
   ter, Hi-Lo, Histogram, Combination

o  Up to 45 chart style variations to choose from

o  Ability to modify predefined chart styles to create user-defined
   chart styles

o  Import data from Lotus 1-2-3, DIF, and ASCII files (VAX only)

o  Easy-to-use worksheet interface for data entry, modification, and
   manipulation (cut, copy, and paste data in the worksheet)

o  Automatic trend line generation for scatter charts

                                12

 

o  Graphic annotation with overlays of text, lines, rectangles and ar-
   rowheads

o  Support for assigning color attributes to: axes, baseline, frame,
   grids, legend, tags, tick marks, column and bar fills, and over-
   lay objects

o  Modification of chart attributes including: axes, baseline, data
   values, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, drop shadows, bar
   spacing, and bar overlap

o  Modification of text attributes: font size, family, weight, and slant

o  File flexibility: saving data, chart style, chart overlay, and color
   selections separately, or save everything together

o  Selectable fill patterns, line patterns, marker types, and attributes

o  Customization with user preferences

o  Ability to move and resize overlay objects

Images and Graphic Formats

DECwrite can link to or include black and white, gray scale, and color
images such as those created by the DECwindows Print Screen utility.

Image files created with DECwindows Paint can also be linked into DECwrite.
Once images are in a DECwrite document they can be annotated, scaled,
or cropped.

Encapsulated PostScript files may be linked into DECwrite, and if the
Display PostScript extensions to DECwindows are available, these graph-
ics will be displayed on the screen.

Optional graphic converters are available in the CDA Converter Library
(VAX only). See the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section for additional infor-
mation.


                                13

 

Document Styles

DECwrite includes fifteen predefined style files: general, example,
letter, manual, simple memo, technical memo, military specification,
newsletter, price list, report, portrait slide, landscape slide, tech-
nical slide, technical journal, and telephone directory. These doc-
ument styles can be used as is, with other documents, or they can be
easily modified by the user to suit any specifications. A set of com-
panion style files for Bookreader output is also included.

High Quality Output

DECwrite provides high-quality black and white and color output to most
third-party PostScript printers.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

This section describes the hardware requirements for DECwrite for Open-
VMS Version 3.1A.

Processors Supported

For a list of supported processors, refer to the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
tem for Alpha and VAX Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

Processors Not Supported

   MicroVAX II
   MicroVAX 2000
   VAXstation II
   VAXstation 2000
   VAXstation 8000
   VAX-11/725
   VAX-11/730
   VAX-11/750
   VAX-11/780
   VAX-11/782



                                14

 

   VAX-11/785

Display Devices

DECwrite runs on any of the supported processors but requires either
a workstation, a Microsoft Windows based PC*, a Macintosh*, or an X
terminal* for display. These display devices must be running an X Win-
dow System, Version 11, Release 4 (R4), Release 5 (R5) or Release 6
(R6) compliant display server.

*  Not recommended as replacements for workstations. There are a num-
   ber of restrictions imposed by these display devices, for example:

o  Number of simultaneously open windows

o  Number of graphics or images in a document

o  Time to download fonts when opening a document

o  Support for inter-application cut and paste of large amounts of text,
   graphics or images

o  Absence of some fonts

o  Absence of support for Display PostScript

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1):

                VAX             Alpha

Disk space      55,000          51,200 blocks
required for    blocks          (26 Mybytes)
installa-       (27 Mbytes)
tion:

Disk space      50,000          47,300 blocks
required for    blocks          (22 Mbytes)
use:            (25 Mybytes)

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
system environment, configuration, and software options.

                                15

 

Memory Requirements

A minimum of 12 Mbytes of memory is required on a workstation to op-
erate DECwrite whether DECwrite is running on the workstation or on
another processor.

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

DECwrite documents can include audio annotations when used with audio-
enabled workstations. This feature is enabled using the DECwindows Mo-
tif DECsound application. See the Compaq DECwindows Motif for Open-
VMS Software Product Description (SPD 42.19.xx) for details on imple-
mentation.

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
and licensed OpenVMS Cluster configuration.

Note: VMScluster configurations are fully described in the VMScluster
Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet, and
Mixed Interconnect configurations.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

The following software is required to run Compaq DECwrite for Open-
VMS Version 3.1A:

o  OpenVMS Alpha Operating System V6.2, 7.2-2 or 7.3

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.5-2, 6.2, 7.2 or 7.3

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS V1.2-5 or higher

DECwrite can run in either of the following ways:

o  Stand-alone execution - Running the OpenVMS DECwindows Motif dis-
   play server and the client application on the same machine.


                                16

 

o  Remote execution - Running the OpenVMS DECwindows Motif display server
   and the client application on different machines.

OpenVMS DECwindows Motif is an optional product, not part of the Open-
VMS Operating System. For more information on OpenVMS DECwindows Mo-
tif, see the Software Product Description (SPD 42.19.xx).

OpenVMS Tailoring

For OpenVMS systems, the following OpenVMS class is required for full
functionality of this layered product:

o  OpenVMS Required Saveset

The following OpenVMS classes are optional:

o  Network Support - required for cluster or server systems

o  Utilities - required for mail

For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, see the Open-
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

o  International Lexicons for OpenVMS V1.1:

   o  International Lexicon/Danish for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Dutch for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Finnish for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Deutsch for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Italian for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Français for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Portugese for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/Spanish for OpenVMS V1.1

                                17

 

   o  International Lexicon/Swedish for OpenVMS V1.1

   o  International Lexicon/American English for OpenVMS V1.1 (included
      with the U.S. Version)

   o  International Lexicon/British English for OpenVMS V1.1

o  CDA Converter Library for OpenVMS V2.2 (VAX only)

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

Media and documentation for this product are available only on the Open-
VMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX Software Product and Online Documentation
Libraries on CD-ROM. Documentation is not available in hardcopy for-
mat.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses

Alpha American English: QL-2FNA*-**
Alpha British English: QL-2FNE*-**

VAX American English: QL-VVFA*-**
VAX British English: QL-VVFE*-**

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
   censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.






                                18

 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under a license. For more information about
Compaq's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Compaq of-
fice.

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
ity.

License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
Use, Personal Use, and Concurrent Use basis. Each Personal Use license
allows one identified individual to use the layered product. Each Con-
current Use license allows any one individual at a time to use the lay-
ered product.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx),
or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
tem documentation set.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

Installation

Installation service provides comprehensive installation of Compaq and
non-Compaq hardware, software, and networks products. These products
include systems, servers, upgrades, workstations, terminals, PCs, pe-
ripherals, network equipment, operating systems, and layered products.
Optional pieces of the Installation offer include site planning and
preparation, orientation, and other projects which are based on the
installation of computer equipment (e.g. relocation services).

License Subscription





                                19

 

License Subscription provides the license rights to use all new ver-
sions of those products, which are released during the contract pe-
riod. Also included are the rights to use certain server-resident prod-
ucts whose license is included in a corresponding client license.

Telephone Software Support

Software Support provides software problem identification and reso-
lution and operational support for system managers, technical support/helpdesk
personnel who manage Compaq and popular multivendor server software
in either a standalone or networked environment. This service provides
access both to technical resources to assist in problem diagnosis and
resolution and to Compaq's information database. This combination of
support resources will address system management questions and inquiries
on a wide variety of topics including information on the latest prod-
uct features, known problems and available solutions, and operational
advice and assistance to help the system manager, system administra-
tor better manage its information technology environment.

Please contact your local Compaq office for additional information on
specific services in your area.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

This software is provided by Compaq with a 90 day comformance warranty
in accordance with the Compaq warranty terms applicable to the license
purchase.

© 2002 Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P.

Compaq, the Compaq logo, DECnet, and OpenVMS are trademarks of Com-
paq Information Technologies Group, L.P. in the U.S. and/or other coun-
tries.

UNIX and The Open Group are trademarks of The Open Group in the U.S.
and/or other countries.

All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their
respective companies.

                                20

 

Confidential computer software. Valid license from Compaq required for
possession, use, or copying. Consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212,
Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and Tech-
nical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government
under vendor's standard commercial license.

Compaq shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omis-
sions contained herein. The information is provided "as is" without
warranty of any kind and is subject to change without notice. The war-
ranties for Compaq products are set forth in the express limited war-
ranty statements accompanying such products. Nothing herein should be
construed as constituting an additional warranty.




























                                21

 









































                                22
