 






                                       COMPAQ


          Compaq DECwrite for OpenVMS

          Dear Customer,

          Thank you for purchasing the Compaq DECwrite for OpenVMS Ameri-
          can English and British English, Version 3.1A software product
          (DECwrite).

          Features

          DECwrite is a compound document processing application that
          combines word processing, publishing, color text and graphics
          creation, data-driven charting, image integration, audio anno-
          tation, and LiveLink connections to supported applications and
          data. For complete information about the product, refer to the
          Compaq DECwrite for OpenVMS American English and British English
          Software Product Description (SPD 25.F7.06).

          There are no functional changes between DECwrite Version 3.1
          and DECwrite Version 3.1A. However, DECwrite Version 3.1A is the
          minimum version required to work with the OpenVMS VAX and Alpha
          Operating System Version 7.3 and/or Compaq DECwindows Motif for
          OpenVMS Version 1.2-6 or higher.

          Documentation

          The Compaq DECwrite for OpenVMS software documentation set
          includes the following manuals:

          o  DECwrite User's Guide, Version 3.0 (January 1994)

          o  DECwrite Installation Guide for OpenVMS Systems, Version 3.0
             (January 1994)

          o  DECwrite Release Notes for OpenVMS Systems, Version 3.1
             (September 1995)

          o  DECwrite Quick Reference Card, Version 3.1 (September 1995)

          The manuals listed above are current for this release of the
          product.

          All of the documentation except the DECwrite Quick Reference
          Card is available in online format as part of the OpenVMS Online
          Documentation Library on CD-ROM. A PostScript version of the
          DECwrite Quick Reference Card is placed on your system during
          the installation. Please see the DECwrite Release Notes for
          additional information. DECwrite documentation is not available
          in hardcopy format.

          Installation

          Please read the DECwrite Installation Manual for OpenVMS Systems
          and Release Notes before installing DECwrite. These documents
          contains important information that will help you configure
          DECwrite for optimum performance on the system.

 






          © 2001 Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P.

          Compaq, the Compaq logo, DECwrite, and OpenVMS are trademarks of
          Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P. in the U.S. and/or
          other countries.


















































                                          2
