 






          COMPAQ



          Read Before You Install: Compaq TP Desktop Connector Version
          3.1A for ACMS

          AV-PTQ3H-TE

          This letter includes information on Compaq TP Desktop Connec-
          tor for ACMS that you should be aware of before installing
          the product. Most importantly, this letter contains your
          product_license_key that is required to install and access the
          product. You should retain this document for future reference.

          A standard Software License, purchased separately, is also
          required for use of this product.

          Features and Enhancements

          The following is a list of the new features or enhancements that
          have been incorporated into this release of the product:

          o  TP Desktop Connector for ACMS Version 3.1 (ECO 2)

          o  Items that were previously documented only in the Release
             Notes have been added into the product documentation set

          o  All product documentation and media have been brought up to
             the latest Compaq branding standards

          Kit Contents

          The following lists the major components of the TP Desktop
          Connector for ACMS kit. The term TPware refers to a collection
          of components that comprise the client portion of the TP Desktop
          Connector for ACMS product.

          o  Read Before You Install: Compaq TP Desktop Connector Version
             3.1A for ACMS

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector Version 3.1A Software Product
             Description

          o  TPware Product Suite CD-ROM

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector for ACMS Gateway CD-ROM

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector Installation Guide

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector Getting Started

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector for ACMS Client Application
             Programming Guide

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector for ACMS Client Services Refer-
             ence Manual

          o  Compaq TP Desktop Connector for ACMS Gateway Management for
             ACMS

 






          Release Notes

          Prior to attempting to install the product, it is recommended
          that you read the Release Notes. The Release Notes contain a
          summary of the known problems, restrictions and installation-
          related instructions, as well as new features.

          The Release Notes for the TP Desktop Connector for ACMS product
          are on the TPware Product Suite CD-ROM. The Release Notes can be
          accessed from the following file:

             dskcon_release_notes.htm

          The Release Notes applicable to the TP Desktop Connector Gateway
          for ACMS are on the TP Desktop Connector Gateway CD-ROM. The Re-
          lease Notes can be assessed by invoking the appropriate command
          when running the VMS install procedure. The file names are:

             acmsdia31.release_notes

          Installation Information

          Read the Release Notes and Installation Guides for detailed
          information on how to install the product from the CD-ROMs.
          These documents also identify any restrictions and how they may
          apply to your environment.

          Refer to the Compaq TP Desktop Connector Version 3.1 Software
          Product Description for prerequisite and optional software
          requirements.

          Client install

          The setup.exe program will take you step by step through the
          WIN32[R] Client install procedure. When making the product
          selections in the TPware installation, a dialog box appears
          prompting for the entry of a product_license_key. The key to
          access the client is:

                    Product License Key: 10230-000-0009219-00864

          Gateway install

          The gateway is installed on your server system enabling access
          to ACMS. Make sure that the required Product Authorization
          Key (PAK) is registered and loaded before using the standard
          VMSINSTAL procedure.

          Web Page Information

          For additional information on the TP Desktop Connector for ACMS
          and related products, checkout the following web pages:

                   Compaq TP Desktop       www.digital.com/tpdesktop
                   Connector:

                                          2

 







                   Compaq TP Web Con-      www.software.digital.com
                   nector:                 /tpwebconnect

                   Compaq ACMS:            www.software.digital.com/acms

                   Compaq ACMSxp:          www.software.digital.com/acmsxp

                   Compaq Portable TP:     www.digital.com/portabletp














































                                          3

 






          Declining Features

          The following features are not planned to be supported in the
          next release of this product:

          o  DOS clients

          o  Windows Version 3.1 & 3.11 clients

          o  OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2

          Should the removal of support for these features cause signifi-
          cant problems for your business environment, please contact the
          Jerry Hershey (jerry.hershey@compaq.com) as soon as possible.

          Trademarks

          Compaq and the Compaq logo are registered with the U.S. Patent
          and Trademark Office. ACMS and ACMSxp are trademarks of Compaq
          Computer Corporation.

          All other trademarks and registered trademarks are the property
          of their respective holders.

          [R]  WIN32 is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation

          © 1999 Digital Equipment Corporation.
          All rights reserved.



























                                          4
