 


                              COMPAQ

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  Disk File Optimizer                     SPD 55.85.09
               for OpenVMS,Version V2.7

DESCRIPTION

Disk File Optimizer for OpenVMS is a layered software product which
reduces both file fragmentation and free space fragmentation and op-
timizes file placement on disk media. This results in better appli-
cation performance, better backup performance, and more efficient disk
utilization. Disk File Optimizer operates in two modes. In "Defrag PLUS"
mode, RMS is used as a database of scheduling information, and defrag-
mentation jobs can be scheduled using a wide variety of scheduling cri-
teria. In normal "Defrag" mode, defragmentation jobs are run when re-
quested by the user. The user or system manager can specify which of
these two modes should be used when the product is installed.

The key capabilities of Disk File Optimizer for OpenVMS are:

o  Reduces file fragmentation and free space fragmentation for disk
   devices

o  Provides the ability to defragment specific files or an entire disk

o  Gives the user the capability to select or exclude specific files
   based on:

   -  User choice

   -  Severity of fragmentation

   -  Whether the file has placement pointers

   -  Whether the files are indexed

o  Provides event based scheduling of defragmentation jobs

                                                       October 2002

                                                        AE-Q6M7K-TE

 

o  Provides a Monitor function which allows File Optimizer processes
   to be monitored while in operation

o  Allows pre- and post-processing commands to effect automation of
   tasks before and after defragmentation jobs are executed

o  Gives the user the ability to classify files as "hot" (frequently
   accessed), or "cold" (infrequently accessed) and to have them placed
   on the disk drive accordingly

o  Provides two modes of operation to tailor to the specific customer
   environment

o  Offers a choice of Digital Command Line (DCL) or Motif[R]-based Graph-
   ical User Interfaces. This is available for both Defrag and Defrag
   PLUS modes.

o  Provides an offline defragmentation utility that allows the user
   to defragment INDEXF.SYS on a disk device that is not mounted. For
   a bound volume set this utility only works on the "ROOT" volume.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Disk File Optimizer is a layered software product on the OpenVMS op-
erating system for both VAX and Alpha hardware platforms. The list of
qualified processors and hardware configurations for this version is
the same as those qualified by OpenVMS and mentioned in the follow-
ing Software Product Descriptions (SPDs).

   OpenVMS VAX Operating System SPD (25.01.xx)
   OpenVMS Alpha Operating System SPD (41.87.xx)

Processors Not Qualified

MicroVAX I, VAXstation I, VAX-11/725, VAX-11/782, VAXstation 8000

Processor Restrictions:

A minimum system configuration to run Disk File Optimizer includes:

o  4 MB memory

                                 2

 

o  One or more disk drives qualified by OpenVMS

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1)

Disk Space Requirements for Defrag PLUS

For installation      27,000 blocks (3.6 MB)
on VAX:
For permanent use     23,700 blocks (1.9 MB)
on VAX:
For installation      32,000 blocks (6.2 MB)
on Alpha:
For permanent use     27,800 blocks (4.0 MB)
on Alpha:

Disk Space Requirements for Defrag

For installation      23,900 blocks (2.0 MB)
on VAX:
For permanent use     22,800 blocks (1.5 MB)
on VAX:
For installation      27,800 blocks (4.0 MB)
on Alpha:
For permanent use     23,900 blocks (2.0 MB)
on Alpha:

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
system environment, configuration, and software options.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System (Version 6.2, 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3) or Open-
   VMS Alpha (Versions 6.2, 7.1-2, 7.2-1, 7.2-2, 7.3 and 7.3-1)






                                 3

 

   DFO V2.7 is qualified for disks connected on the Fiber Channel. Open-
   VMS Alpha Versions 7.2-1 and above provide support for Fiber Chan-
   nel (FC) connected disk devices. DFO V2.7 has qualified this fea-
   ture in OpenVMS with HSG80 Array Controller. Please refer to Open-
   VMS documentation for a complete listing of supported disk devices
   and Operating System versions.

OpenVMS Tailoring

For OpenVMS Alpha V6.x systems, the following classes are required for
full functionality of this layered product:

o  OpenVMS Required Saveset

o  Programming Support

o  Utilities

o  System Programming Support

o  Secure User's Environment

o  Network Support

o  OpenVMS Workstation Support

For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
or the OpenVMS Alpha Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
41.87.XX).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

o  DECwindows Motif V1.1 or later.

   DECwindows Motif is part of the OpenVMS Operating System but must
   be installed separately. Installation of DECwindows Motif gives you
   the option to use the Disk File Optimizer graphical user interface.


                                 4

 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
about Compaq's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Com-
paq office.

License Management Facility

This layered product qualifies the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
ity.

License units for the software are granted for use on one specified
system, based on the processor system class level. Licenses granted
as processor tier-independent (processor generic), are no longer of-
fered, but can continue to be used on any system qualified by the soft-
ware. These include the following licenses: QL-2GNA9-AA and QL-GJ8A9-
AA.

For more information on the OpenVMS License Management Facility, re-
fer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description
(SPD 25.01.xx), the OpenVMS Alpha Operating System Software Product
Description (SPD 41.87.xx), or the License Management Facility man-
ual of the OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha Operating System documenta-
tion set.

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

Disk File Optimizer qualifies defragmenting disks connected to Open-
VMS VAX or Alpha machines from any qualified VAX or Alpha machine. It
is fully qualified when installed on any valid and licensed VMScluster*
configuration without restrictions. The HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section
of this product's Software Product Description details any special hard-
ware required by this product.

*VMScluster configurations are fully described in the VMScluster Soft-
ware Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet, and Mixed
Interconnect configurations.



                                 5

 

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

The Disk File Optimizer software has discontinued H-Kit distributions.
9-track and TK50 media is no longer available to fulfill this require-
ment.

This layered product is also available as part of the OpenVMS Consol-
idated Software Distribution on CD-ROM for VAX (QA-VWJ8A-A8) and on
the Compaq CD-ROM Software Library for OpenVMS Alpha (QA-03XAA-H8).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Media:

   VAX (CD-ROM): QA-VWJ8A-A8
   Alpha (CD-ROM): QA-03XAA-H8

Software Licenses:

   VAX:

      Workgroup: QL-GJ8AB-AA
      Departmental: QL-GJ8A2-AA
      Enterprise: QL-GJ8A5-AA

   Alpha:

      Workgroup: QL-2GNAE-AA
      Departmental: QL-2GNAG-AA
      Enterprise: QL-2GNAQ-AA

Software Documentation:

   VAX: QA-GJ8AA-GZ

                                 6

 

   Alpha: QA-2GNAA-GZ

Software Product Services:

   VAX: QT-GJ8A*-**
   Alpha: QT-2GNA*-**

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
   censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Compaq. For more in-
formation, contact your local Compaq office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

This software is provided by Compaq with a 90 day conformance warranty
in accordance with the Compaq warranty terms applicable to the license
purchase.

©2002 Compaq Information Technologies Group, LP

Compaq, the Compaq logo, VAX and VMS Registered in U.S. Patent and trade-
mark Office. OpenVMS and Tru64 are trademarks of Compaq Information
Technologies Group, L.P. in the United States and other countries. Mo-
tif and UNIX are trademarks of The Open Group in the United States and
other countries. All other product names mentioned herein may be trade-
marks of their respective companies. Confidential computer software.
Valid license from Compaq required for possession, use or copying. Con-
sistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Com-
puter Software Documentation, and Technical Data for Commercial Items
are licensed to the U.S. government under vendor's standard commer-
cial license. Compaq shall not be liable for technical or editorial
errors or omissions contained herein. The information in this docu-
ment is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind and is subject
to change without notice. The warranties for Compaq products are set



                                 7

 

forth in the express limited warranty statements accompanying such prod-
ucts. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional
warranty.





































                                 8
