 






        SOFTWARE
	PRODUCT
	DESCRIPTION
	--------------------------------------------------------------------
        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
        

        1 DESCRIPTION

              ALL-IN-1[TM] Office Server Options for OpenVMS[TM] Alpha
              and OpenVMS VAX[TM] V3.2 provides brand new capabilities
              to the existing ALL-IN-1 user community which will also be
              attractive to prospective ALL-IN-1 customers. New features
              include:

              o  Access to the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet from the World Wide
                 Web via the new ALL-IN-1 Web Interface that installs on
                 a local Internet Server

              o  Direct connection to Alpha-based MAILbus 400[TM] and
                 Digital X.500[TM] as an alternative mail backbone to
                 VAX-based Message Router

              o  Direct support for Innosoft's Alpha-based PMDF[R] smtp
                 /MIME backbone without the need for Message Router

              o  WordPerfect[R] V5.1++ Alpha and VAX integration "hooks"

              All this new functionality complements the existing
              proven, robust and scaleable services, with a number
              of flexible licensing and a new Alpha migration option
              designed to maximise customer choice without price
              penalty.

              ALL-IN-1 has a proven facility for integrating other
              business- oriented applications and unifies applications
              and services into an easy-to-use information system.
              It provides facilities for mixed groups of VT[TM],
              Microsoft[R] Windows[R] V3.11, Windows 95[R] and Apple[R]
              Macintosh[R] users in small departments or across the
              enterprise to communicate, share documents and work
              together to raise collective productivity.

              Through ALL-IN-1 electronic mail and links into Digital
              Equipment Corporation's networking facilities and de facto
              industry standard networks such as TCP/IP, users can send
              or receive multimedia information that has been created on
              desktop, departmental and corporate systems. In addition,
              due to its server- based origins and comprehensive system

                             					Juli 1996 
								AE-GF10K-TE
                                          

 


        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06


              management facilities, a minimum management staff is
              required.

              ALL-IN-1 Office Server consists of:

              o  ALL-IN-1 Office Applications

              o  Integral support for TeamLinks[TM] Windows and
                 Macintosh clients

              o  Support for MAPI 1 (Messaging Application Programming
                 Interface 1) clients and applications through the
                 Digital MAPI 1 Driver V1.0 for ALL-IN-1 (planned
                 availability, Summer 1996)

              o  Support for MS Mail V3.2 clients through the Microsoft
                 Mail Driver - SPD: 55.71 (planned availability, Summer
                 1996)

              o  Support for cc:Mail[R] clients through the Digital
                 Driver V1.0 for cc:Mail - SPD: 56.15 (planned
                 availability, Autumn 1996)

              o  Multiple licensing options and licensing styles

              o  X-Open XAPI and XDS interfaces to communicate directly
                 with MAILbus 400 and Digital X.500 based on Digital
                 UNIX[TM] or OpenVMS Alpha

              o  Ability to act as an Internet Service Provider, in
                 conjunction with a local Web server, enabling access
                 from anywhere on the Internet outside the local
                 Internet security "firewall"

              o  Message Router Gateway for OpenVMS VAX (includes both
                 the Message Router and the Gateway to OpenVMS Personal
                 Mail Utility)

              o  WordPerfect V5.1++ Alpha integration "out-of-the-box"
                 (not included with the ALL-IN-1 V3.2 kit however)

              o  FMS[TM] (includes both FMS and Forms Language
                 Translator)

              o  ALL-IN-1 Group Conferencing (based on DEC Notes[TM])

              o  Integral CDA[TM] Conversion Services on both Alpha and
                 VAX

        2

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              ALL-IN-1 provides an environment in which users access
              applications in a consistent manner. A user's multimedia
              documents and mail messages are stored in the common File
              Cabinet where they are accessed from the variety of user
              devices or applications.

              The generic office applications are built upon the base
              system facilities. These facilities are available when
              customizing or developing applications that are to be
              consistent with the ALL-IN-1 environment.

        2 LICENSING OPTIONS

              Differentially priced subsystems of ALL-IN-1 are available
              packaged in a number of licensing options all from the
              same kit. These options are designed to enable customers
              to optimise their purchases to suit end-user needs.

              A new Alpha only option introduced with V3.2 is known as
              ALL-IN-1 NoMR - No Message Router - which is full ALL-IN-1
              IOS (Integrated Office Server) without the cost of or
              license to use Message Router. This option is designed
              for maximum customer flexibility enabling customers to
              choose which mail system and how many Message Transfer
              and Directory Service Agents they wish to deploy without
              incurring the running costs of Message Router and the
              associated OpenVMS VAX systems.

              All licensing options support Concurrent Use, System Class
              Capacity and Personal Use licensing styles except NoMR,
              which does not support Personal Use.














                                                                       3

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Table 1 Licensing Options available with ALL-IN-1 Office
              ________Server_V3.2_on_OpenVMS____________________________

                            ALL-IN-1          ALL-IN-1
                            IOS &    ALL-IN-1 Core     ALL-IN-1 Client
              ______________NoMR_____STARTER__Services_Services_Access__

              Subsystem
              licensed:

              Time Mgmt     Yes      No       No       No

              WPS-PLUS[TM]  Yes      Yes      No       No
              editor

              Group Conf'g  Yes      No       Yes      Add'l license
              (DEC Notes)                              required

              Customization Yes      No       Yes      No
              Management

              System        Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
              Management
              (from VT)

              MAILbus 400   Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes

              Digital       Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
              X.500

              DDS access    IOS =    Yes      Yes      Yes
                            Yes
                            NoMr=No

              MAILbus 1     IOS =    Yes      Yes      Yes
              access        Yes
                            NoMr=No

              Shared File   Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
              Cabinet

                                                (continued on next page)



        4

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Table 1 (Cont.) Licensing Options available with ALL-IN-1
              ________________Office_Server_V3.2_on_OpenVMS_____________

                            ALL-IN-1          ALL-IN-1
                            IOS &    ALL-IN-1 Core     ALL-IN-1 Client
              ______________NoMR_____STARTER__Services_Services_Access__

              VT or         Yes      Yes      Yes      No[1]
              terminal
              emulation
              support

              TeamLinks     Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
              client
              support

              MAPI 1        Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
              client
              support
              (Spring
              1996)

              Distributed   Option   Option   Option   Option
              File Sharing
              (DSO)
              [1]_Support_is_provided_for_one_system_manager_only.______

              Additional system administration personnel can be granted
              access however, each requiring a Personal Use license
              from one of the other licensing options. Concurrent
              Use licenses for system management purposes are not
              recommended.
              __________________________________________________________

              Note:

              o  Other X.400 Message Transfer Agents and X.500 Directory
                 Service Agents may be supported. All that is required
                 is for the specific XAPI and XDS libraries to be ported
                 to OpenVMS.

              o  The ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access License is limited
                 to the current capabilities of the TeamLinks V2.7
                 Client (Windows and Macintosh).

                                                                       5

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  The Client Services Access license does not support
                 user access from VTs or terminal emulation mode UNDER
                 ANY CIRCUMSTANCES. For capabilities greater than those
                 accessible from TeamLinks V2.7 Clients, choose any of
                 the other licensing options as appropriate.

              o  Every TeamLinks client must be licensed by a TeamLinks
                 Client license regardless of the ALL-IN-1 licensing
                 option being accessed.

        3 TeamLinks CLIENT SUPPORT

               Services available to TeamLinks V2.7 Clients:

              The ALL-IN-1 Office Server provides ALL-IN-1 work-
              group services to TeamLinks V2.5 and V2.7 clients
              over DECnet[TM], TCP/IP, SLIP, Asynchronous links or
              Appletalk[R] (to Macintosh devices). The server enables
              TeamLinks users to gain access to the File Cabinet
              drawers, folders and documents, messaging service, and
              distribution lists with minimum retraining for VT users
              familiar with ALL-IN-1.

              Users employingWindows and Macintosh desktops with their
              choice of personal productivity applications available
              for these platforms can transfer document types of any
              description to the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet for secure
              storage and send these multimedia documents via the
              messaging service using existing distribution lists.

              New services available from ALL-IN-1 V3.2 to TeamLinks
              V2.7 clients include:

              o  Shared ALL-IN-1 drawer management

              o  Support for X.400 and Internet addressing

              o  Server based Print Services

              o  Management of ALL-IN-1 Groups

              o  Set Mail User and Grant Mail Access

              ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.2 allows users of heterogeneous
              clients (Windows, Macintosh, VT) to co-exist and fully
              participate in workgroup activities.

        6

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Although TeamLinks V2.1 Clients are supported with
              functionality restricted to the capabilities of the
              client, it is recommended that earlier versions are
              updated to TeamLinks V2.5 or ideally V2.7 to gain access
              to more functionality and higher performance.

              For details of the facilities available from TeamLinks
              clients please refer to SPDs 64.17 (Windows) and 48.17
              (Macintosh).

              Broadcast Server:

              Alternative TCP/IP products - TGV MultiNet[R], Wollongong
              PathWay and Process Software TCPware are supported
              transports enabling broadcast to TeamLinks V2.5 and V2.7
              clients.

              Note:  The level of client service can be extended
              beyond that offered by the TeamLinks V2.7 Client. A full
              complement of Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) is
              provided to the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server and ALL-IN-1
              Distributed Access server for application developers.

        4 OFFICE APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE IN THE ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER
          V3.2

        5 File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

              The ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet is a full multimedia file repos-
              itory. "Documents" of any type - ASCII, PostScript[R],
              .DOC, .XLS, .PPT, MPP, full motion video, audio, and so
              on, can be stored in the File Cabinet.

              The ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet is similar in function to a
              standard office filing cabinet with drawers containing
              documents contained within folders. Folders are in
              alphabetical order and documents within the folders are in
              order by date and time of creation.

              Document information (such as title, date created,
              document number, author, keywords, and type) is maintained
              in the File Cabinet. Facilities are provided for the user
              to maintain and manage the contents of the File Cabinet.
              The user can print or delete more than one document at a
              time. Selection of the documents can be made with user-
              specified criteria.

                                                                       7

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Documents (individual or by folder) can be refiled,
              cross-filed, or duplicated. Information such as title and
              associated keywords can be changed. When a document has
              multiple cross-filings within a single drawer, only one
              copy of the document body is stored, thereby minimizing
              storage space.

              Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket
              until the Wastebasket is emptied.

              A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of
              documents or contents of the user's screen can be
              temporarily placed. Contents of the scratch pad can be
              inserted into a document, edited, printed, mailed, or
              read.

              The File Cabinet provides access to documents through
              a common mechanism regardless of the format of the
              documents. Support is provided as standard for document
              formats of virtually any type including multimedia. In
              addition, all X.400 P2 attributes can be stored in the
              ALL-IN-1 V3.2 File Cabinet.

              ALL-IN-1 provides a feature that allows the user and
              system manager to archive and restore any ALL-IN-1
              document from the group shared areas or from a user's
              File Cabinet. Archiving of the same document by multiple
              users will result in multiple copies of that document
              being archived.

              World Wide Web Access

              Any document placed in a drawer with World Read access
              or Internet access (a new system manager controlled
              identifier) can be accessed from anywhere on the Internet
              with the installation of the ALL-IN-1 Web Interface (AWI)
              V1.0 on the local Internet server. With the Distributed
              Sharing Option (SPD 36.97) licensed the AWI, utilising
              any IP transport, links the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet to
              the Internet, allowing a user running an Internet client
              such as Netscape[TM] or Mosaic[TM] to access documents
              of any type in the File Cabinet. No specialised HTML
              (Hypertext Markup Language) authoring tool is required
              on the server to "publish" documents on the Internet and
              updating documents is simply a question of filing a new

        8

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              document into the File Cabinet for immediate access from
              the Web.

              Important: All documents within the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet
              can be made secure by the inherent ALL-IN-1 V3.2 security
              capabilities. However, if these facilities are not used
              access from ALL-IN-1 to the Internet may open up the
              possibility for security violations. Digital accepts
              no responsibility for the security of documents within
              ALL-IN-1.

              Mail Janitor

              A mail janitor utility is incorporated in the base
              product. It allows the system manager to refile old
              messages in the READ and OUTBOX folders to the user's
              Wastebasket. The manager can set the maximum permitted
              age of messages in the READ and OUTBOX folders (default
              60 days) and a maximum number of messages to delete per
              folder. Profile and Policies options can set and override
              default actions for number of messages and user length of
              absence.

              Checkmail

              This feature is used to check if the user has any unread
              or unsent mail in the default mail drawer before entering
              ALL-IN-1 and will inform the user if this is the case.

















                                                                       9

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Shared Filing

              Users can create shared drawers to allow other users
              to read and edit shared documents. Access controls are
              provided so that the drawer owner can specify which users
              or named groups of users are allowed to access a drawer
              and the operations they are allowed to perform in it.
              Concurrency control ensures that certain actions are
              prohibited while a user is modifying a shared document.
              For example, while a user is editing a shared document,
              other users attempting to edit that document will be
              informed the document is in use.

              The Reservation feature enables a VT or TeamLinks user to
              reserve a document in the File Cabinet before uploading
              the document to the user's workstation, thereby indicating
              to all other users who have access to that document that
              the document is in the process of being modified. Anyone
              subsequently attempting to modify the document is informed
              that it is reserved by another individual and that only
              Read Access is permitted. Only when the Reserver returns
              the modified document and removes the Reservation, can
              others access the document with more than Read Access.

              Shared Filing links all users' File Cabinets on a system
              or across systems via the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing
              Option. Refer to the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option
              Software Product Description
              (SPD 36.97).

              Group Services

              Users with suitable profile settings can define a set
              of local ALL-IN-1 users as a Group and use it as a
              distribution list. Multiple Groups can be defined. Groups
              can be assigned access privileges to shared documents or
              drawers. Members can be added or deleted from a group and
              associated access rights are automatically assigned or
              removed. Users can also check what Groups they belong to.

              TeamLinks V2.7 clients are able to Create, Edit and View
              Groups. TeamLinks clients prior to V2.7 can list Groups
              and list Members only.


        10

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 


        6 Mail

              The Electronic Messaging application provides a means
              of exchanging messages with other users. The user can
              create, edit, print, delete, read, send, answer and
              forward messages. The message header (which contains
              addressee(s), subject and mail classification) and the
              text of the unsent message can be edited.

              When creating a message, the user specifies the ad-
              dressee(s) to whom the message is to be sent. Optionally,
              any addressee(s) to receive copies of the message and
              blind carbon copies of the message may be included. In
              addition users may specify an Expiry Date for each message
              sent, along with Importance (high or otherwise) and
              Sensitivity (for example, Company Confidential, Private,
              Personal). To save time with addressing, the user can
              create personal distribution lists or nicknames (seen only
              by the user).

              Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered.
              Answers can be directed to the sender only, or to all
              the recipients of the message. Confirmation that the
              addressee(s) has received and/or read the message can
              be requested. Priority for delivery of the message can
              be assigned as Express, First Class, or Second Class. The
              user can specify that the sending of a message be deferred
              to a time chosen by the user.

              Messages appear to the user and are treated as documents.
              ALL-IN-1 maintains folders for incoming, read, created,
              and sent messages. Once a message is sent, one copy of
              that message is shared (per system or cluster) by the
              sender and receiver(s) and cannot be edited. Messages can
              be refiled and cross-filed in the user's File Cabinet.
              Documents already in the File Cabinet can be sent to other
              users.

              The user can choose to have all incoming messages
              automatically forwarded to another user. Alternatively,
              the user can create a reply message that is sent in
              response to all incoming mail (for example, "I am out
              of the office until. . .").


                                                                      11

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Shared filing within Electronic Messaging ensures that
              operations behave correctly in shared and distributed
              environments. Mail operations always take place in the
              user's MAIN drawer, whatever the previous context.

              An index of attachments to a message can be displayed
              and a set of options is provided for printing or reading
              individual attachments. Attachments can be filed as
              revisable text or as messages which can be forwarded.

              The Set Mail User (SMU) option allows a user to perform
              many mail operations on behalf of another user, such as
              a secretary for a manager. The Grant Mail Access (GMA)
              option lets users specify other users who may process
              their mail. The mail header displays both users' names
              when a mail message is sent by a user employing SMU. Both
              these options are supported by TeamLinks V2.7 clients.

              Addressing includes the automatic recognition of an
              Internet address; integral X.400 addressing support; for
              backwards compatibility and minimum disruption for users,
              the continued support of Message Router style addressing
              even when the mail backbone has been replaced with MAILbus
              400; the ability to create a distribution list using
              the list of addresses from a received Message Header;
              nickname support - long nicknames, manipulation of the
              long mail addresses common on messages sent or received
              via gateways to other mail systems, and the ability to
              create a nickname from the sender of a message.

              Exchange of messages with users on other systems is no
              longer restricted to Message Router:

              With the inclusion of the X/Open XAPI and XDS interface
              stubs within all V3.2 licensing options customers may
              choose Alpha-based (either Digital UNIX or OpenVMS)
              MAILbus 400 and pre-requisite Digital X.500 as their
              mail backbone, deploying MTAs and DSAs when and where
              they wish, with local or remote connection from ALL-IN-1
              servers. The ALL-IN-1 NoMR license is recommended for
              customers migrating from MR to MAILbus 400, giving
              customers time to plan and gracefully migrate without
              facing a "big bang" switchover of all systems at the
              same time. For ongoing communication to remaining Message
              Router based systems XMR (VAX) is recommended.

        12

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Customers may continue with Message Router for OpenVMS
              VAX as the MRIF V2.0 interface is also included. However,
              simultaneous access to Message Router and MAILbus 400
              is not supported. The Message Router OpenVMSmail Gateway
              allows ALL-IN-1 users to exchange messages with users
              of the OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility. Refer to the
              VAX Message Router for OpenVMS VAX Software Product
              Description (SPD 26.33).

              Another alternative is Innosoft's PMDF that delivers an
              smtp/MIME backbone, which is also Alpha based, having
              direct access to ALL-IN-1 V3.2 without the need for
              Message Router.

              PMDF does not currently utilise any Digital directory
              service, so it is best deployed by customers that utilise
              NETWORK.DAT and not DDS. PMDF also has a channel to
              VMSmail[TM].

              Message interchange with the Internet is possible from all
              the above mail backbone options. Internet style addressing
              is honoured by ALL-IN-1 V3.2 out-of-the-box.

        7 Directories

              The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance
              to directories available to the user. The user can view a
              directory, maintained by the system manager, that contains
              telephone numbers and addresses. A directory of all the
              ALL-IN-1 users can also be viewed. Facilities are provided
              for the user to maintain and view a personal telephone
              directory, nicknames, and distribution lists.

              With the adoption of MAILbus 400 (SPD: 54.67) as the
              mail backbone, directory services are provided by Digital
              X.500. Please refer to SPD 40.77.

              With the installation of X.500 or MAILbus Directory
              Service, ALL-IN-1 provides the user with the ability to
              perform mail directory searches on defined criteria such
              as name, department, location, and organization.




                                                                      13

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        8 Customization and Application Development

              For VT users ALL-IN-1 supports a form-driven system that
              uses VAX FMS[TM] (Forms Management System) or DEC FMS on
              the Alpha architecture. For more information on VAX FMS
              refer to SPD 26.10 and DEC FMS SPD 45.06 (Note: FMS is not
              relevant to TeamLinks V2.* users.)

              In conjunction with FMS and FMS Form Language Translator,
              the ALL-IN-1 Application Development utilities allow
              changes to be made to the ALL-IN-1 system. ALL-IN-1
              can be altered to fit customer-specific requirements
              and provides a platform for application development and
              integration. ALL-IN-1 provides a programming interface
              to common functions and mechanisms to pass control from
              one application or function to another (that is, Flow
              Control).

        9 Customization Management (CM)

               Note: Not accessible from TeamLinks V2.* clients or the
              ALL-IN-1 STARTER and Client Services Access licensing
              options.

              The features within Customization Management allow system
              managers and application programmers to modify their
              standard ALL-IN-1 system in a controlled and disciplined
              manner. It provides the ability to create, modify,
              index, and control customizations as well as providing
              a modification history record for customizations.

              Customization Management provides support for customizable
              element types that ship with ALL-IN-1, as well as support
              for customer's own element types.

              Support for customized corporate systems is provided
              through the use of application areas. In addition,
              transferring customizations and applications from one
              system to another is supported.

              Context-sensitive menu options are available, which allow
              the display and choice of only those menu options relevant
              to a particular element type.


        14

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 






        10 System Management (SM)

              Note: Not accessible from TeamLinks V2.* clients.

              The System Management utilities are used to perform
              routine maintenance of ALL-IN-1, such as scheduling
              and rescheduling of housekeeping procedures, management
              of printers, optional management of the X.500 DSA from
              ALL-IN-1, direct maintenance of Network, X.500 and DDS
              profiles, metering, and quota management of the shared
              area. A system manager has the option of creating a non-
              OpenVMS privileged system administrator for the purpose of
              administering the management of the following:

              o  File Cabinet and Distributed Access Servers in
                 support of PC and Macintosh clients and other ALL-IN-1
                 components

              o  User accounts (create, delete, move, rename)

              o  Mail system Sender/Fetcher processes and queue
                 maintenance

              o  Document archiving

              o  System distribution lists

              o  Drawers, including individual user drawer creation
                 restriction

              o  Mail janitor functionality

              o  Distribution list print suppression

              o  Scheduling of housekeeping tasks

              o  Monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception and information
                 reports

              o  The initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

              ALL-IN-1 supplies a metering facility that enables system
              managers to collect data on resource usage within ALL-IN-1
              sessions for pre-defined events. Application developers
              can define and create their own additional meters. Meters
              will record the number of times a meter is called, CPU
              usage, Direct I/O, Buffered I/O, and Page Faults. Metered
              events can also be collected by DECtrace[TM], if it is
              installed on the system. This provides facilities for
              managing and reporting the information collected.

                                                                      15

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        11 Printing

              The Printing facility provides the user the ability to
              specify where a document is to be printed, the number of
              copies, and the output format. The output can be directed
              to any of the printers available to the ALL-IN-1 user,
              another document, or to the user's terminal. Documents
              that specify Runoff handling are automatically processed
              by Digital Standard Runoff (DSR) before output. Printing
              and formatting is handled in the background, freeing the
              terminal for other actions when interaction with the print
              formatter is not needed.

              Printer level checking ensures the print destination
              supports the document's final form format.

              Print and LPS print options (LPS20, LPS40, PS17, PS32) can
              be specified during a print operation. System-defined and
              user- defined print styles can be utilized for improved
              ease-of-use. Throughput of jobs during a multiple print
              operation has been improved.

              Distribution List Print Suppression

              Suppression of the distribution list on reading and/or
              printing of a mail message is determined according to the
              user's current preferred settings.

              Note: Print Services are now accessible from TeamLinks
              V2.7 clients.

        12 Job Services

              No Job Services are accessible from TeamLinks Clients
              prior to V2.7.

              ALL-IN-1 provides users the ability to perform operations
              on their jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using
              the multiple select indexing capability, users can get
              information on jobs, delete jobs, edit their attributes,
              and restart currently executing jobs.

              Management of queues and jobs can be performed within ALL-
              IN-1. Managers can assign one or more users to manage
              specific local queues and requeue jobs to different
              queues.

        16

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        13 Profile

              Each ALL-IN-1 user has a user profile that contains
              information pertaining to the user.

              The VT user can access and modify part of their user
              profile including full name, address, telephone number,
              department, and title. In addition, user preference
              information (such as work week and working hours, editing
              style, mail notification, and read receipt handling) can
              be modified.

              The system manager maintains information such as user
              privileges, default directory, and form library access.

              Index Select

              In most instances, a user can create an index selection
              list by selecting or deselecting objects from the index.
              Operations (such as print, delete, cross-file, and so
              forth) can be performed on the list as if they were a
              single entity. An index menu lists the options available
              to the current selected index. Within an index, a VT
              or terminal emulation user can scroll either forward or
              backward.

        14 International Support

              ALL-IN-1 is designed to support multilingual operations.
              This support is subject to availability of the specific
              translation. ALL-IN-1 can be deployed in a multilingual
              network and can support multilingual operations on a
              single system. However, all language kits, including U.S.
              English, must be the same version.

        15 Document Processing

              Note: The license to use the WPS-PLUS editor is not
              included in the ALL-IN-1 Core Services License or
              the Client Services Access License. Existing WPS-PLUS
              documents can be read, formatted and printed; only
              the capability to create new WPS-PLUS documents is
              unavailable.


                                                                      17

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              The Document Processing application enables VT and
              terminal emulation users to create, edit, print, delete,
              and read documents. The editor used is dependent upon
              the user's preference indicated in the User Profile.
              ALL-IN-1 users have a choice of editors: EDT[TM], TPU,
              WPS[TM], and WPS-PLUS. TeamLinks users may utilise any
              wordprocessor supported by their particular client such
              as WordPerfect, Ami Pro or Word and are able to store
              documents so produced in the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet.

              WPS-PLUS is not supported on Windows or Macintosh clients,
              however a WPS-PLUS viewer is provided as standard.

              EDT, TPU, and WPS are ASCII editors. EDT and TPU use
              keying conventions and terminology oriented toward the
              more technical user. WPS uses keying conventions and
              terminology that make it a subset of WPS-PLUS. WPS is
              available to users who have a word processing orientation
              but desire ASCII output.

              The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 is
              Digital's full function word processor. The version
              included provides true proportional spacing, font
              selection, support for PostScript® output, multicolumn
              editor (up to 25 Left/Right margins within a ruler), the
              ability to create and/or edit up to 10 documents at one
              time. User enhancements include a more versatile status
              line, "Start" and "End" Control Blocks inserted together
              with a single keystroke, and many more.

        16 Time Management (TM)

              Note: Not licensed by the ALL-IN-1 STARTER, ALL-IN-1 Core
              Services or the ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access License.

              An ALL-IN-1 VT User interface to Time Management offers
              the facility to maintain a personal calendar of events,
              involving appointments with groups of colleagues located
              across the enterprise. An "Events at a Glance" screen
              gives the user an editable picture of the day's events,
              which makes it easy to make changes. Likewise, the "Task
              at a Glance" screen gives the user an editable picture of
              open tasks. These pictures are combined on an "Events and
              Tasks" screen where other Time Management operations can
              be performed.

        18

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Users can tailor Time Management and display only the
              screens and options that are of interest to them.

              Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In
              an event involving other attendees, Time Management uses
              the Electronic Messaging application to deliver meeting
              notifications and confirmations. TM honours X.400 O/R
              addressing for intra and inter-company communication.
              Users can also reserve unavailable time on their
              calendars. An entry in the user's calendar can be marked
              confidential and other users cannot read the description
              of the entry. Recurring events can be scheduled whereby an
              attendee's "Yes" reply schedules all occurrences of the
              meeting on the calendar.

              Time Management has the ability to perform a multinode
              scan. This scan will return a graph of potential
              attendees' free time prior to the scheduling of the
              meeting. It will scan both local and off- node calendars
              in real time.

              The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-
              do lists, action items, and so forth. Tasks are not
              necessarily tied to a specific day or time of day. Tasks
              can be viewed by selection criteria such as open versus
              closed, a range of beginning dates, deadlines, and so
              forth.

              Note: The ALL-IN-1 Time Management user interface, meeting
              notification and confirmations are not supported by
              TeamLinks Windows or Macintosh clients, however they are
              supported in terminal emulation mode.

        17 Group Conferencing

              Note: Not licensed by the ALL-IN-1 STARTER or ALL-IN-1
              Client Services Access license.

              An ALL-IN-1 VT user interface has been applied to
              Digital's DEC Notes application to provide the Group
              Conferencing feature. This feature gives users the
              ability to communicate on a many-to-many basis while
              taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's ease of use. Application
              developers can benefit from DEC Notes being integrated
              at the API level in developing business or professional-
              specific applications that can use this conferencing

                                                                      19

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              capability. For more information on DEC Notes refer to SPD
              47.19 (OpenVMS Alpha) and 27.06 (OpenVMS VAX).

              DEC Notes also supports a Windows interface through
              the TeamLinks Conferencing for Windows (SPD 38.65) and
              TeamLinks Conferencing for Macintosh (SPD 41.58) and may
              be integrated into TeamLinks Clients via the "button bar".

        18 Document Conversion

              All licensing options include the following supported data
              types:

              o  RTF - Rich Text Format

              o  DDIF[TM] - the standard CDA encoding format

              o  DOTS - the format for packing and transferring
                 composite CDA documents

              o  DTIF[TM] - the CDA encoding format for tables

              o  WK1, WK3, DIF, MACWRITE[R], DX[TM], WPL, PICT,
                 WORDPERFECT

              o  PS - the final form PostScript document format

              ALL-IN-1 allows all the datatypes to be read, with the
              exception of PostScript.

              Users will be able to send and receive these document
              types in mail, store them in their Filing Cabinet, read,
              print, copy, and convert them. The quality of formatting
              of the displayed data depends on the CDA facilities
              provided by the underlying OpenVMS system. ALL-IN-1 uses
              the CDA character cell formatter, which gives improved
              results with correct formatting and the inclusion of
              externally referenced files.

              ALL-IN-1 will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript
              if the destination printer is capable of it; otherwise,
              ALL-IN-1 will convert the document to ASCII text before
              printing.

              The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to
              /from the above datatypes.

        20

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a
              standard editor, the normal handling will result in a
              message telling the user that the document format is not
              supported by the editor. However, the user can convert a
              CDA document into a suitable format for editing and then
              use the appropriate editor. Through conversion, there is a
              potential for formatting attributes to be lost.

              CDA Base Services supports the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet, thus
              allowing documents live-linked by any CDA application.
              Users will also be able to unpack composite documents into
              the File Cabinet. Application programmers will have access
              to the CDA tools through the provision of API functions.

              For conversions on Alpha, DECwindows V1.2 must be in-
              stalled and the minimum version of
              CDA$ACCESS.EXE and DDIF$CC_VIEWSHR.EXE is V1.8.

              For conversions on VAX, CDA Converter Library V2.2 must be
              installed, which will also install CDA Run-Time Services
              V1.0. The minimum version of CDA$ACCESS.EXE and DDIF$CC_
              VIEWSHR.EXE is V1.7.

        19 Communications (CXP+)

              The Communications application enables users to access
              other computer systems without needing to understand
              anything about communications technology.

              Entire communications sessions can be automated through
              the use of Control Documents. (Control Documents are
              standard ALL-IN-1 documents that contain a set of special
              commands.) Connection to other computer systems can
              be fully automated if autodial modems or hardwired
              connections are permitted. The asynchronous, non-DECnet
              connection is by means of an OpenVMS terminal port
              (RS232 type) and can be connected to any computer system
              supporting such terminal types.

              Modems may now be connected to LAT Servers enabling access
              from multiple systems on the network.

              The autodial feature of the Communications application
              supports Hayes or 100% Hayes compatible modems. No
              commitment is made or implied to support any other modem
              types.

                                                                      21

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        20 VT-Specific Functionality

              Desk Calculator

              Note: TeamLinks Clients have access to standard Windows
              and Macintosh accessories instead of these functions.

              The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interac-
              tive calculations and include the results in documents.
              Desk Calculator operates in two modes: Calculator
              and Formula. Formula mode is used for complicated
              formulas that combine trigonometric and arithmetic
              functions. Calculator Mode is used for simple arithmetic
              computations. The alternate keypad is operated the same
              way as a standard calculator.

              Systemwide Features

              Menu Navigation for VT and Terminal Emulation Users

              Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus.
              Experienced users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

              The user can interrupt their current activity to read a
              new mail message, display the current time, or to access
              Time Management, Directories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch
              Pad.

              Users familiar with OpenVMS commands can have direct
              access to the commands without leaving ALL-IN-1 if they
              are authorised by the system manager to do so.

              Help

              VT users can invoke Help for some parts of ALL-IN-1 by
              pressing the Help key. The Help facility provides basic
              information on the function in question without the user
              having to reference the documentation.

              For TeamLinks users the standard F1 key provides Help
              in the Windows environment and "Balloon" Help in the
              Macintosh environment.

              On-line Training

              VT users can learn how to use the system using the on-
              line training facilities. Training leads the user through
              sets of interactive screens and explains how the various
              features of ALL-IN-1 work.

        22

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              User-Defined Processes

              User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated
              key sequences by automatically recording keystrokes.
              There is no limit to the number of UDPs or the number
              of keystrokes that can be stored in a UDP. One UDP can
              invoke another UDP.

              Document Handling

              Document Reservation allows each user to protect a
              document whilst it is undergoing a series of edits, in
              situ or remotely, preventing other users from modifying it
              until unreserved. Whilst reserved other users can read the
              document but not edit.

              The Document handling model makes a clear distinction
              between revisable and final form documents. The model
              provides clear separation of formatting and printing, so
              that formatting of documents can be performed separately
              from printing.

              The background formatter provides CDA formatting, which
              enables CDA formatting to be performed in both foreground
              and background.

              Printer level checking ensures the print destination
              supports the document's final form. If the destination
              does not support the final form, then, where possible, the
              document is converted to a format that is supported, or
              the user will be advised to print to a different printer.

              IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

              ALL-IN-1 can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards
              on CUT mode terminals that are supported using the CMX04
              option card in a DECserver[TM] 550:








                                                                      23

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

              o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

              o  102 Key Typewriter

              o  87 Key Typewriter

        21 DOCUMENTATION

              The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1 kits
              supplied to new customers. (Documents supplied with ALL-
              IN-1 V3.2 Update kits to existing customers are marked
              with an *)

              o  Read Me First*

              o  System management documentation

                 -  Release Notes (on-line)*

                 -  Installation: Guide*

                 -  Installation: Language and Market Supplement*

                 -  Overview and Planning Guide*

                 -  Management Guide*

                 -  Mail Management Guide*

                 -  Managing Servers*

                 -  CDA Converter Library Documentation (1)

                 -  Message Router Documentation

                 -  OpenVMSmail Gateway Documentation

                 -  VAX FMS and DEC FMS Installation Guide

                 -  DEC Notes Installation Guide

              o  Application programming documentation

                 -  Application Programming: Getting Started

                 -  Application Programming: Guide

                 -  Application Programming: Using Customization
                    Management

                 -  Application Programming: Reference Volumes 1, 2

        24

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

                 -  Application Programming: FMS Reference

                 -  Application Programming: User Interface Standards

                 -  Application Programming: Mini Reference

                 -  Application Programming: Index

              o  General user documentation

                 -  ALL-IN-1 Håndbog

                 -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Minihåndbog
































                                                                      25

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  Superuser documentation

                 -  ALL-IN-1 Brugerhåndbog*

                 -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Brugerhåndbog*

                 -  ALL-IN-1 Håndbog i administration*

                 -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics

                 -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Tillæg

              (1) The full documentation for the complete library is
              supplied although a subset is included with ALL-IN-1 V3.2.

              Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased
              separately.

              Customers wishing to modify the documentation to reflect
              the customization of their ALL-IN-1 system should contact
              their local Digital Sales Office for information.

        22 SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

              In order to facilitate customization of ALL-IN-1,
              several source code modules are provided on all available
              distribution media for this product. This source code is
              provided without any warranty of any kind, either express
              or implied.

        23 INSTALLATION

              At installation the full ALL-IN-1 kit is installed
              regardless of licensing option required with the exception
              of the WPS-PLUS V4.2 editor, which is not installed with
              the Core Services or Client Services Access license.

        24 Digital Service option

              This software product will be installed by Digital at no
              additional charge if purchased concurrently with a Startup
              Service Package that includes installation service. Both
              the operating system and this product must be installed
              concurrently.

        26

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Only customers with experience in managing OpenVMS and
              ALL-IN-1 should attempt installation of this product.
              Digital recommends that all other customers purchase
              Digital's Installation Services. These services provide
              for installation of the software product by an experienced
              Digital Software Specialist.



        25 The CART (Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool)

              This tool is included as part of the installation
              procedures, but should be run on V3.1 systems prior
              to the upgrade to ALL-IN-1 V3.2. It examines the
              customizations on the existing system and produces the
              CART Report indicating what changes are required to
              migrate applications and customizations. It contains a
              number of procedures which check for changed messages,
              mandatory changes, and a checklist generated from the
              Differences document.


        26 Updating from previous versions and co-existent versions

              Customers may upgrade from any licensing option of
              ALL-IN-1 V3.1 or V3.1A (V3.1 with TeamLinks Connection
              V2.5 installed) to V3.2, but upgrading from earlier
              versions than V3.1 is not supported.

              ALL-IN-1 V3.2 does not support co-existent systems;
              that is, earlier versions of ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 V3.2
              may not co-reside on the same CPU, VAXcluster[TM] or
              VMScluster[TM].

        27 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

        28  Processors Supported

              Alpha: All Alpha processors and workstations supporting
              OpenVMS will support ALL-IN-1.

              Note: Recommended minimum memory size is 64MB.


                                                                      27

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              VAX: All VAX processors are supported with the exception
              of:

                 MicroVAX[TM]: MicroVAX I
                 VAXstation[TM]: VAXstation I, VAXstation 8000
                 VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750, VAX-11/782

              Note: Recommended minimum memory size for supported VAX
              systems is 32MB.

              No VAXserver[TM] machines of any type or model are
              supported as they do not support interactive operations
              essential for system management.

        29 Processor Restrictions

              ALL-IN-1 does not support diskless satellite systems in
              Ethernet and mixed interconnect clusters.

              The amount of memory, processors, and disk drives required
              by the supported CPUs to run ALL-IN-1 is dependent on the
              number of simultaneous users. This information is being
              updated on a continuing basis. Contact your local Digital
              office for specific details.

        30 Other Hardware Supported

              TeamLinks Clients:

              o  A Windows based personal computer using an 80386
                 microprocessor or better, IBM or 100% compatible. A
                 processor clock of at least 25 Mhz is recommended.

              o  A minimum of 5.0 MB system memory must be allocated for
                 TeamLinks V2.*. Note: This is in addition to the memory
                 used by the system software and any other applications
                 that may be running.

              o  One 3.5-inch high-density (1.44 MB) disk drive or a
                 CD-ROM drive

              o  Minimum 200 MB hard disk recommended

                 - OR -

              o  Any Macintosh PC that supports Macintosh Operating
                 System V7.0 or higher

              o  Minimum 200MB hard disk recommended

        28

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  A minimum of 1.5 MB system memory must be allocated for
                 TeamLinks V2.*. Note: This is in addition to the memory
                 used by the system software and any other applications
                 that may be running.

              The following terminals are supported for text:

              o  VT100[TM] series (VT100, VT100W, VT101, VT102, VT125)
                 or devices in VT100 emulation mode
                 Note: Some of the later ALL-IN-1 functionality is
                 not accessible from VT100 or VT100W terminals. Refer
                 to the relevant VT manual for information as to the
                 capabilities of each device.

              o  VT200 series (VT220[TM], VT240, VT241) and devices that
                 support VT200 emulation

              o  VT300[TM] series (VT320[TM], VT330[TM], VT340[TM]) and
                 devices that support VT300 emulation

              o  VT420[TM] text video terminal

              o  VT500 text video terminal

              o  VT1000 in VT300 emulation mode or via DECwindows[TM]
                 DECterm[TM] mode

              o  All Digital PCs in VT220 or VT300 emulation mode
                 Note: KEATERM is not supported.

              o  VAXstation-series terminals

              o  The following IBM terminal keyboards on CUT mode
                 terminals are supported using the CMX04 option card:

                    122 Key Typewriter (native mode)
                    122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)
                    102 Key Typewriter
                    87 Key Typewriter

              Note: WPS-PLUS supports only those terminals with Advanced
              Video Option (AVO). It does not support the VT100 without
              AVO, VT131, DECmate I, or WS78.

              Technical Character Set Support:

              o  VT220-, VT300-series terminals


                                                                      29

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  VAXstation II-supported in VT220 emulator mode

              o  All Digital PCs in VT220 or VT300 emulation mode


        31 Printers

              ALL-IN-1 can submit print jobs to virtually any device
              that has an associated OpenVMS printer queue.

              Application support for various printer features varies
              by the application used. The following lists printers
              supported by the WPS-PLUS subsystem integrated into
              ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.2:

              (# denotes that this printer has been superseded but no
              testing has been performed to ensure that all features of
              the replacement models are supported.)

              o  Personal:

                    LA70, LA75[TM] Plus
                    DEClaser[TM] 1100, DEClaser 1152
                    LA310, LA424

              o  PC Printers (Via Terminal Emulation):

                    Epson LQ-105#, HP[R] DeskJet[R] 500#,
                    IBM ProPrinter[R] X24E#, NEC PinWriter[R] 6300#,
                    Okidata Microline 393+#, Panasonic KX-P1180#,
                    Toshiba[R] ExpressWriter 400#

              o  Shared:

                    DEClaser 3500, DEClaser 2100/plus, DEClaser 2150
                    /plus











        30

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06

 
              o  Departmental:

                    LP11, DEClaser 3200/plus, DEClaser 3250/plus,
                    Turbo PrintServer[TM] 20, PrintServer 17, PrintServer
                    32

                ________________________Note  ________________________

                Digital acknowledges that a plethora of third-
                party PCs, PC BIOS, network interfaces and network
                software stacks can be deployed in conjunction
                with PCs and Macintoshes accessing all versions
                of ALL-IN-1. Digital has observed that some
                combinations of these third-party products do not
                exhibit correct behaviour, resulting in intermittent
                or permanent user- or system manager-perceived
                problems. If such conditions occur Digital reserves
                the right to recommend combinations of the above
                that are known to behave correctly to solve actual
                customer interoperability problems. In addition,
                Digital will not be held responsible for supporting
                combinations of third-party products used in
                conjunction with any version of ALL-IN-1 that
                are known to behave improperly or to consistently
                exhibit incorrect operation on customer sites.

                _____________________________________________________

        32 DISK SPACE REQUIREMENTS

              Please refer to the ALL-IN-1 V3.2 Installation Guide for
              disk space requirements.

              Optional Hardware:

              ALL-IN-1 supports any mass storage, unit record, terminal,
              or printer device supported by the prerequisite software.

              The autodial feature of the Communications application
              supports Hayes or 100% Hayes compatible modems only. No
              commitment is made or implied to support any other modem
              types.



                                                                      31

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        33 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

              This layered product is fully supported when installed
              on any valid and licensed VAXcluster* or VMScluster*
              configuration within the limits of the appropriate SPD
              (see Note immediately below). This includes VAX only,
              Alpha only and mixed Alpha and VAX clusters.

                ________________________Note  ________________________

                *Cluster configurations are described in OpenVMS
                Cluster Software (SPD: 29.78).

                _____________________________________________________

                ______________________ WARNING ______________________

                Whether a cluster consists of just VAX or just Alpha
                systems or a mixture of VAX and Alpha systems, all
                nodes running ALL-IN-1 within the cluster must
                refer to a single and common set of "OA$" logical
                definitions and a single and common SYSUAF file.

                _____________________________________________________

        34 SOFTWARE_REQUIREMENTS________________________________________

              OpenVMS_VAX______OpenVMS_Alpha____________________________

              OpenVMS VAX      OpenVMS Alpha V6.1 or later
              V6.1 or later

              DECnet-VAX       DECnet V1.5 for OpenVMS Alpha
              end-node V5.5

              VAX FMS V2.4     DEC FMS V2.4 for OpenVMS Alpha (included
              (included with   with the ALL-IN-1 kit)
              the ALL-IN-1
              kit)______________________________________________________






        32

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        35 OpenVMS Tailoring

              For OpenVMS V6.1 systems, the following classes of OpenVMS
              are required for full functionality of this layered
              product:

              o  Network Support

              o  Programming Support

              o  System Programming Support

              o  Secure User's Environment

              o  Utilities

              o  BLISS Require Files

              For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring,
              refer to the OpenVMS Operating System Software Product
              Description (SPD 25.01).

        36  Country-specific Software

              Please contact your Digital office for the latest
              information on other language versions and for details
              of supported multilingual configurations.

              o  A spelling verifier and corrector with a spelling
                 database of over 80.000 words that can be used in
                 conjunction with up to 12.000 additional user-specific
                 words.

        37 Optional Software

              o  MAILbus 400 Message Transfer Agent for OpenVMS V1.4A,
                 V2.0 (SPD: 54.67)

              o  Digital X.500 Directory Service Agent for OpenVMS V3.0
                 (SPD: 40.77)

              o  MAILbus 400 API V2.0 (SPD: 54.69)

              o  XMR MAILbus 400 to Message Router gateway V1.2 (VAX
                 only) (SPD: 53.65)

              o  MAILbus 400 smtp gateway V2.1 for Digital UNIX (SPD:
                 46.91)

                                                                      33

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  TeamRoute for ALL-IN-1 OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX
                 V1.3A (Spring 1996)

              o  TeamLinks for Microsoft Windows V2.5 (SPD: 64.17)

              o  TeamLinks for Macintosh V2.5 (SPD 48.17)

              o  PATHWORKS[TM] for DOS V5.0 or higher

              o  PATHWORKS for OpenVMS VAX V5.0 or higher
                 AND/OR*

              o  PATHWORKS V5.0 or higher for OpenVMS Alpha

              o  VAX Message Router V3.3a (V3.3a is included with the
                 ALL-IN-1 Kit). Not available on OpenVMS Alpha

              o  VAX Message Router OpenVMS Gateway V3.3 (V3.3 included
                 with the ALL-IN-1 Kit)

              o  DECnet/OSI for OpenVMS V6.1 or later (Note: Long node
                 names are not supported)

              o  One of the supported JSB TCP/IP stacks

              o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS V3.1 or higher

              o  TGV Multinet V3.4 or higher

              o  Wollongong PathWay V2.5 or higher

              o  Process TCPware V4.1 or higher

              o  Any product supporting the WinSockets API and PATHWORKS
                 or DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS

              o  DEC Notes V2.5 for OpenVMS (included with the ALL-IN-1
                 Kit and required for Group Conferencing but not
                 licensed for STARTER or Client Services Access)

              o  ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option for OpenVMS
                 (required for remote distributed sharing and the
                 ALL-IN-1 Web Interface V1.0), SPD: 36.97

              o  ACMS[TM] V4.1 for OpenVMS

              o  DEC DATATRIEVE[TM] V7.1 for OpenVMS

              o  VAX Grammar Checker V1.0 (VAX only available)

              o  DEC VTX for OpenVMS V6.2

        34

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              o  For CDA VAX support-CDA Converter Library for OpenVMS
                 V2.2 (VAX only available)

              o  For CDA Alpha support-DECwindows V1.2 for OpenVMS Alpha

              * AND/OR indicates that this software is available on
              OpenVMS Alpha as well as OpenVMS VAX systems and that both
              may be required on mixed architecture clusters depending
              upon customer needs.

        38 Known Restrictions

              TeamRoute for ALL-IN-1 OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX V1.2
              does not install on ALL-IN-1 V3.2 Alpha or VAX.

              ALL-IN-1 PC Server V1.0, ALL-IN-1 DESKtop for OpenVMS VAX
              V1.1 and V1.2 do not install on ALL-IN-1 Office Server for
              OpenVMS Alpha & VAX V3.2.

              ALL-IN-1 DECwindows Services for OpenVMS VAX V1.0 does not
              install on ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS Alpha & VAX
              V3.2.

              ALL-IN-1 Electronic Authorisation and Routing Services
              V2.0 and V2.1 do not install on ALL-IN-1 Office Server for
              OpenVMS Alpha & VAX V3.2.

              ALL-IN-1 Personal Assistant for OpenVMS VAX V1.1 does not
              install on ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS Alpha & VAX
              V3.2.

              Mobilizer for ALL-IN-1 V1.0 and V1.0a do not install on
              ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS Alpha & VAX V3.2

              Mobilizer for POQET V1.0 does not install on ALL-IN-1
              Office Server for OpenVMS Alpha & VAX V3.2

              Optional Lexicons for WPS-PLUS V3.2 are not compatible
              with the WPS-PLUS shipping in this version. Contact your
              Digital Sales office for availability information.

              Customers should contact providers of any currently inte-
              grated third-party products regarding compatibility with
              ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.2 on VAX and Alpha, or contact
              their local Digital Sales Office for specific information
              on layered product availability and interoperability with
              ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.2.

                                                                      35

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        39 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

              The minimum hardware/software requirements for any
              future version of this product may be different from the
              requirements for the current version.

        40 LICENSING-MIGRATION TO ALL-IN-1 ALPHA V3.2

              In addition to the four existing licensing options (IOS,
              STARTER, Core Services and Client Services Access)
              available from the one kit, a new license has been
              introduced - ALL-IN-1 NoMR - enabling migration from any
              of these options on VAX to the new license on Alpha. This
              new license is intended to enable customers to gracefully
              migrate to a non-Message Router mail backbone, whereby
              they do not pay for the Message Router license within
              ALL-IN-1, but access is not denied to it initially,
              allowing customers to transition to, for example,
              MAILbus 400 in an orderly and controlled fashion. After a
              reasonable length of time (3 to 6 months) usage of Message
              Router by ALL-IN-1 would be expected to cease as the whole
              organisation moves to the alternate mail backbone.

              Any and all existing Concurrent and Personal Use licenses
              will run without extra cost or modification under the new
              ALL-IN-1 NoMR license.

              ALL-IN-1 NoMR is not supported on ALL-IN-1 versions prior
              to V3.2 and is licensed on Alpha only. Packages of 20,
              50 and 100 Concurrent licenses are also available, each
              installed by a single Product Authorisation Key (PAK) for
              convenience.













        36

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Table_2_Licensing_and_Migration_Options___________________

                              VAX
              VAX_License_____UPI___Corresponding_Alpha_UPI_____________

              IOS             AAA   2XC

              Core Services   246   2XD

              Client          2DG   2XG
              Services
              Access

              STARTER         VNN   2X4

              Any VAX               4ZX (ALL-IN-1 NoMR Alpha)
              license___________________________________________________

              Trade-Up-To-User programme on ALL-IN-1 VAX and ALL-IN-1
              Alpha:

              Existing Capacity based Alpha or VAX systems can convert
              to User licensing via the corporate Trade-Up-To-User
              programme and then deploy the resulting Personal or
              Concurrent licenses on any ALL-IN-1 V3.1 or V3.2 Alpha
              system in the organisation. These User licenses have
              the same Unique Product Identifier (UPI) and corporate
              list price on VAX and Alpha systems and can therefore be
              deployed at will.

              Note: Concurrent Use licenses cannot be installed on
              ALL-IN-1 systems prior to V3.1.

              Note: ALL-IN-1 NoMR Concurrent Use licenses only run on
              ALL-IN-1 Alpha V3.2 systems.

              The existing ALL-IN-1 STARTER VAX migration to full ALL-
              IN-1 IOS VAX is also retained (UPI=VNP) for V3.2 systems.
              For customers that only have access to ALL-IN-1 STARTER
              V2.4 systems they must first upgrade to full ALL-IN-1 IOS
              VAX V3.0 before an update to STARTER V3.1 on either VAX or
              Alpha. A temporary license PAK will be supplied free of
              charge to customers in countries where ALL-IN-1 STARTER
              V3.0 is not available. This will enable them to install
              full ALL-IN-1 IOS VAX V3.0 and then be in a position to
              update to STARTER V3.1, then to STARTER V3.2 Alpha or VAX
              or NoMR V3.2 Alpha.

                                                                      37

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        41 ORDERING INFORMATION


              ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER LICENSING OPTIONS FOR OpenVMS Alpha
              V3.2:

        42 ALL-IN-1 NoMR for OpenVMS Alpha V3.2

              Software
              Licenses:

                            QL-4ZXA*-**   Capacity

                            QL-4ZX*A-3B   Single concurrent license

                            QL-4ZX*A-3C   20 Concurrent licenses

                            QL-4ZX*A-3D   50 Concurrent licenses

                            QL-4ZX*A-3E   100 Concurrent licenses

              Software      QA-AAAAA-**
              Media

              Complete      QA-AAAAA-GZ
              Documentation
              Kit

              Software      QT-4ZXA*-**
              Product
              Services

              Software      QL-2Y0**-**   Capacity
              Licenses
              Secondary
              Lang

              Software      QL-AAB**-2B   Personal
              Licenses
              Secondary
              Lang

              Software      QA-AAB*A-H*
              Media
              Secondary
              Lang

        38

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        43 ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office Server (IOS) for OpenVMS Alpha
           V3.2

              Software Licenses:    QL-2XCA*-** Capacity

                                    QL-AAAAA-2B Personal

                                    QL-AAAAA-3B Concurrent

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-2XCA*-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB*A-H*
              Secondary Lang

        44 ALL-IN-1 Core Services for OpenVMS Alpha V3.2

              Software Licenses:    QL-2XDA*-** Capacity

                                    QL-246AA-2B Personal

                                    QL-246AA-3B Concurrent

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-2XDA*-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang


                                                                      39

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB*A-H*
              Secondary Lang


        45 ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access for OpenVMS Alpha V3.2

              Software Licenses:    QL-2XGA*-** Capacity

                                    QL-2DGAA-2B Personal

                                    QL-2DGAA-3B Concurrent

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-2XGA*-**
              Services


        46 ALL-IN-1 STARTER for OpenVMS Alpha V3.2

              Software Licenses:    QL-2X4A*-** Capacity

                                    QL-VNNAA-2B Personal

                                    QL-VNNAA-3B Concurrent

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-2X4A*-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang

              Software Licenses     QL-VX8**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB*A-H*
              Secondary Lang

        40

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER LICENSING OPTIONS FOR OpenVMS VAX
              V3.2:

        47  ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office Server (IOS) for OpenVMS VAX
           V3.2

              Software Licenses     QL-AAAA*-**

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-AAAA*-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB**-**
              Secondary Language


        48 ALL-IN-1 Core Services for OpenVMS VAX V3.2

              Software Licenses     QL-246A*-**

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-246A*-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang




                                                                      41

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB*A-H*
              Secondary Language


        49 ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access for OpenVMS VAX V3.2

              Software Licenses     QL-2DGA*-**

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete 		    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              Documentation Kit

              Software Product      QT-2DGA*-**
              Services


        50 ALL-IN-1 STARTER for OpenVMS VAX V3.2

              Software Licenses     QL-VNNA*-**

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-VNNA*-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-VX8**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang

              Software Licenses     QL-VX8**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB*A-H*
              Secondary Language


        42

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              ALL-IN-1 STARTER MIGRATION TO ALL-IN-1 IOS FOR OpenVMS
              VAX V3.2:

              Software Licenses     QL-VNPA*-**

              Software Media        QA-AAAAA-**

              Complete Document-    QA-AAAAA-GZ
              ation Kit

              Software Product      QT-AAAA*-**
              Services

              ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER MIGRATION OPTIONS TO OpenVMS
              Alpha:


        51  ALL-IN-1 OpenVMS VAX V3.1 Migration to ALL-IN-1 NoMR for
            OpenVMS Alpha V3.2

              Software Licenses     QL-4ZX **-**

              Software Product      QT-4ZX**-**
              Services

              Software Licenses     QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
              Secondary Lang

              Software Licenses     QL-AAB**-2B Personal
              Secondary Lang

              Software Media        QA-AAB*A-H*
              Secondary Lang

              ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION:

              ALL-IN-1/US Management     QA-AAAAB-GZ
              Documentation

              ALL-IN-1/US API            QA-AAAAC-GZ
              Documentation Kit

              ALL-IN-1 General User      QA-AAAAM-GZ
              Documentation Kit

              ALL-IN-1 Superuser         QA-AABAA-GZ
              Documentation Kit

              * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on
              available licenses, services, and media, refer to the
              appropriate price book.

                                                                      43

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

        52 SOFTWARE LICENSING

              This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
              of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and
              Conditions. For more information about Digital's licensing
              terms and policies, contact your local Digital office.

              o  Operational Restriction

                 A TeamLinks connection to ALL-IN-1 cannot be estab-
                 lished if the TeamLinks ALL-IN-1 account is based
                 on an account where multiple ALL-IN-1 users share a
                 single OpenVMS account. Each TeamLinks user must have
                 an individual ALL-IN-1 account.

              o  Note also:

                 -  Every user of ALL-IN-1 must be a registered OpenVMS
                    and ALL-IN-1 user. Upon acquiring a new Personal
                    Use or Concurrent Use license of any type a new
                    TeamLinks user must be registered as such by the
                    ALL-IN-1 system manager or administrator. If no
                    individual TeamLinks named user registration occurs,
                    that user will be denied access to ALL-IN-1 V3.2.

                 -  Non-TeamLinks Clients accessing ALL-IN-1 via the
                    published APIs, MAPI 1 Connection or whatever, must
                    also be registered OpenVMS and ALL-IN-1 users.

              o  License Management Facility Support

                 This layered product supports the OpenVMS V1.1 License
                 Management Facility.

                 License units for this product are allocated on an
                 Unlimited System Use plus Personal Use basis and
                 Concurrent Use basis.

                 Each Personal Use license allows one identified
                 individual to use the layered product. In addition,
                 ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Reporting Tool.
                 System Managers and Administrators can easily recognize
                 when the authorized (purchased) personal license limit
                 has been reached or exceeded.

        44

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

                 For more information on the License Management
                 Facility, refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System
                 Software Product Description (SPD 25.01) or the License
                 Management Facility Manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operating
                 System documentation set.


        53 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

              A variety of services and options are available from
              Digital. For more information, contact your local Digital
              office.

        54 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

              Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
              with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
              in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.


              © 1996 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

              ACMS, ALL-IN-1, CDA, DATATRIEVE, DDIF, DEC, DEC Notes,
              DEClaser, DECnet, DECserver, DECterm, DECtrace, DECwindows,
              Digital, Digital UNIX, Digital X.500, DTIF, DX, EDT,
              FMS, LA, LA75, MAILbus, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS,
              PrintServer, TeamLinks, VAX, VAX FMS, VAXcluster,
              VAXserver, VAXstation, VMScluster, VMSmail, VT, VT100,
              VT220, VT300, VT320, VT330, VT340, VT420, WPS, WPS-PLUS,
              and the DIGITAL logo are trademarks of Digital Equipment
              Corporation.

              Apple, AppleTalk and Macintosh are registered trademarks
              of Apple Computer, Inc.
              cc:Mail is a trademark of cc:Mail, a subsidiary of Lotus
              Development Corporation/IBM.
              HP and DeskJet are registered trademarks of Hewlett-
              Packard Corporation.
              IBM and ProPrinter are registered trademarks of International
              Business Machines Corporation.
              MacWrite is a registered trademark of Claris Corporation.
              Microsoft, Windows and Windows 95 are registered
              trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.
              Mosaic is a trademark of the University of Illinois.

                                                                      45

        ALL-IN-1/DANSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS
        Alpha and OpenVMS VAX 3.2 				SPD 25.A6.06
 

              Multinet is a registered trademark of TGV Corporation.
              Netscape is a trademark of Netscape Communications
              Corporation.
              PinWriter is a registered trademark of NEC Corporation.
              PMDF is a registered trademark of Innosoft International
              Inc.
              PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.
              Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha
              Toshiba.
              WordPerfect is a registered trademark of WordPerfect
              Corporation.

              International CorrectSpell spelling correction system
              ©1987 by INSO Corporation. All rights reserved.
              Usage Alert: Programs and databases for the Usage Alert
              licensed from INSO Corporation. ©1987 by INSO Corporation.
              All rights reserved.
              Rogets II Electronic Thesaurus: Electronic Thesaurus
              portions copyright ©1988 by INSO Corporation. Rogets
              II: The New Thesaurus ©1980 by Houghton-Mifflin Company.
              Licensed from INSO Corporation. All rights reserved.
























        46
