 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 300 for VMS[*] and MS-DOS[R], Version 2.2c SPD
 25.J1.05

 DESCRIPTION

 DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.2c software is an enhanced
 software and maintenance release for the DECserver 300.

 The DECserver 300 software provides concurrent Local Area Transport
 (LAT) and Telnet TCP/IP protocol support from a DECserver 300 termi-
 nal server to enable connectivity to host systems that utilize LAT or
 TCP/IP protocols. The TCP/IP protocol suite is used to connect to UNIX[R]
 host systems and other host systems that support the TCP/IP protocol
 suite.

 The DECserver 300 Terminal Server is an Ethernet Communications Server
 for Ethernet Local Area Networks. The DECserver 300 provides a con-
 venient method to logically connect up to sixteen digital asynchronous
 terminals to one or more service nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once
 the terminal is connected, a user can utilize application programs and
 utilities as though the terminal was directly connected to a host via
 a DMF32, DHU11, or DHV11/DHQ11 device, with a few exceptions. Thus,
 it may be possible to utilize the DECserver 300 to connect all ter-
 minals to service nodes in place of traditional interfaces, except for
 host console terminals and remote connection via dial-in modems, which
 are not supported.

 The DECserver 300 uses MMJs (Modified Modular Jacks) for the attach-
 ment of asynchronous devices. The MMJ segregates a Data from a Voice
 connection. The DECserver 300 utilizes the EIA 423-A electrical in-
 terface standard for local connections. EIA 423-A is compatible with
 the EIA 232-D interface and supports DTR/DSR (Data Terminal Ready/Data

 ____________________

 The   terms OpenVMS and VMS refer to the OpenVMS operating system.

                               DIGITAL                   August 1997

                                                         AE-NE47G-TE

 

 Set Ready) signals. EIA 423-A supports longer cable runs and higher
 signaling speeds.

 The DECserver 300 does not support connections to wide area networks
 via modems. However, it does provide the capability for connections
 to non-LAT hosts.

 The DECserver 300 also allows for host-initiated connections to se-
 rial printers. A print symbiont on service nodes can initiate connec-
 tions to serial printers connected to DECserver 300 ports. This al-
 lows the printers to be distributed throughout a facility and accessed
 transparently by service node users. Incoming host-initiated connect
 requests may be queued first-in/first-out at the server.

 Port-to-port connections on the same server are also supported.

 The DECserver 300 implements the LAT protocol for communication with
 service nodes that implement this protocol on the same Ethernet. This
 interface has been optimized for high terminal I/O performance over
 an Ethernet, while reducing host CPU cycles required to handle inter-
 rupts. Hence, under most I/O loading conditions, a significant per-
 formance gain may be realized by using the DECserver 300 versus di-
 rect terminal connections via traditional asynchronous backplane com-
 munications interfaces.

 The DECserver 300 also implements the TCP/IP protocol suite for com-
 munication with host systems that implement TCP/IP. The TCP/IP pro-
 tocols are based on the University of California's 4.3 Berkeley Soft-
 ware Distribution (BSD). The following TCP/IP protocols are supported
 and adhere to the Defense Data Network (DDN) Request for Comments:

 o  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is the Internet standard trans-
    port level protocol that provides the reliable, end-to-end full du-
    plex, stream service that supports many application protocols. (RFC
    793)





                                  2

 

 o  User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is an Internet protocol that provides
    datagram service to application programs, allowing an application
    program on one machine to send a datagram to an applications pro-
    gram on another machine. UDP is necessary for the Domain Name Sys-
    tem and the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). (RFC 768)

 o  Internet Protocol (IP) is an Internet standard protocol that de-
    fines the Internet datagram as the unit of information that gets
    passed across the Internet, and provides the universal addressing
    scheme for hosts and gateways for Internet connection-less, best
    effort packet delivery services. IP includes ICMP as an integral
    part. (RFC 791)

 o  Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is an Internet network pro-
    tocol that specifies error and control messages used with the In-
    ternet protocols. (RFC 792)

 o  Packet Internet Groper (PING) tests the reachability of nodes on
    the users' Internet. ICMP echoes requests are sent and replies pro-
    cessed.

 o  Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is an Internet protocol used to
    perform dynamic address resolution to dynamically map or translate
    an Internet address into the correct physical hardware address. (RFC
    826)

 o  Telnet is the standard Internet application level protocol for re-
    mote terminal connection service. Telnet is a virtual terminal fa-
    cility that allows a user at one site to establish a TCP connec-
    tion to a remote system. Telnet makes the local terminal appear as
    a direct extension of the remote system, allowing the user to con-
    duct a session and run application programs as if the user's ter-
    minal was directly connected to the remote system. (RFC 854)

    Both Telnet client and server capabilities are provided. Telnet client
    provides the ability to connect to any remote TCP port at an In-
    ternet address on a local area network (LAN) or a wide area net-
    work (WAN). Telnet client allows the user to specify a remote com-
    puter by Internet address as well as by domain name.

                                  3

 

    Telnet server provides the ability to accept connection requests
    from Internet hosts on a LAN or WAN to DECserver 300 ports, such
    as printers, host systems, or other serial devices.

    Telnet character and binary profiles are supported for Internet ses-
    sions. Telnet options supported include: status (RFC 859), end of
    record (RFC 885), remote flow control (RFC 1080), echo (RFC 857),
    timing mark (RFC 860), binary (RFC 856), and suppress go ahead (RFC
    858).

    Telnet Remote Console allows a user to establish a remote Telnet
    connection to the management port on the terminal server and man-
    age the server as if locally attached. The Telnet listener 23 can
    now be assigned to any terminal server port as well as the remote
    console. Any Telnet listener (23, 2001-2016) can be assigned to be
    the remote console.

 o  Internet Domain Name System (DNS) Support-The Domain Name System
    provides the translation from system name to Internet address. The
    DECserver 300 will interface to user programs and send queries to
    domain name servers for translating domain names to Internet ad-
    dresses, and Internet addresses to domain names. (RFC's 1034,1035)

 o  Subnet Addressing (RFC 950)

 o  Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)-The SNMP agent allows the
    DECserver 300 to be managed by an SNMP network management system.
    Retrieving information from the terminal server is possible using
    the SNMP GET and GETNEXT requests. The SNMP SET operation is fully
    supported providing the ability to modify DECserver parameters as
    well as create and delete applicable table entries. The terminal
    server can send unsolicited event alarms to specified SNMP manage-
    ment stations via the SNMP TRAP message. Terminal server variables
    accessible via SNMP (RFC 1157) are defined by the Internet docu-
    ments: MIB II (RFC 1213), RS232-Like MIB (RFC 1317), the Charac-
    ter MIB (RFC 1316).




                                  4

 

 o  Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP)-A host computer which supports
    SLIP can use the DECserver 300 serial port as its network connec-
    tion. This gives IP end nodes which have no Ethernet controller,
    access to the network and to other serial line attached TCP/IP end
    nodes. Any IP application can then be run over the SLIP link. (RFC
    1055)

 The DECserver 300 also implements and supports the Terminal Device/Session
 Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple sessions at the de-
 vice level. The DECserver 300 provides the ability to communicate with
 devices which also implement this protocol and assist in the manage-
 ment of multiple sessions for these devices. By implementing this pro-
 tocol, the DECserver 300 can permit attached devices to maintain screen
 and keyboard context for multiple LAT and/or Telnet sessions, as well
 as allow these devices to run multiple LAT and/or Telnet sessions con-
 currently.

 The DECserver 300 implements the ODL (On Demand Loading) font load-
 ing protocol which allows Asian terminals that implement the ODL pro-
 tocol to communicate with a VMS host via a terminal server. The Asian
 terminals will be able to request font definitions from a VMS host when
 connected to a DECserver 300. This feature is supported only for LAT
 connections.

 Software that runs on the DECserver 300 is downline loaded over the
 network from a Phase IV or V DECnet load host. Terminal access using
 the DECserver 300 does not require DECnet running in the same service
 node; LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism to transport termi-
 nal messages.

 Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal sessions, au-
 tomatic failover, and remote printer support can lead to greater user
 productivity.

 For wide area network communications, terminal users can connect to
 remote hosts via Telnet through a TCP/IP router or gateway. In addi-
 tion, terminal users can connect to a local service node running DEC-
 net, where they can "SET HOST" to a remote system via the DECnet net-
 work terminal protocol. If this system has the requisite X.25 or SNA

                                  5

 

 3270 access routines, a terminal user could communicate to a remote
 SNA or X.25 host through the appropriate gateway and this interven-
 ing host. A DECserver 300 terminal user cannot communicate directly
 to remote hosts through DECnet Routers or X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide area
 network traffic will not provide the same high level of performance
 as local terminal connections, due to the additional DECnet or Inter-
 net protocol overhead.

 Features

 Terminal Connection Management

 Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical con-
 nection, called a session, to any service node that implements the LAT
 or Telnet protocol on the same Ethernet LAN, or to a remote host that
 implements the TCP/IP protocol suite. This connection makes the ter-
 minal appear as if it were physically connected to the service node,
 and the terminal user can use standard system utilities and applica-
 tions supported by that node. Each terminal connected to the server
 can connect to the same or a different service node on the Ethernet.
 Furthermore, several servers can be used to connect many terminals to
 one or more service nodes.

 A service node can have one or more services that are offered to DEC-
 server 300 users. Services and nodes are identified by name. Users al-
 ways connect to services, not to nodes, although often one of the ser-
 vice names will be the node name.

 In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 300 sees each VAXcluster
 on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a common ser-
 vice. Each cluster node may also offer a service whose name is equiv-
 alent to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can connect ei-
 ther to the cluster service or a service associated with a particu-
 lar cluster node.

 Load Balancing




                                  6

 

 When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the con-
 nection is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process
 the server uses when more than one node offers the same service. Ser-
 vice nodes do not have to be configured in a cluster in order for load
 balancing to be used. Service nodes with the same names may be run-
 ning different operating systems. Using the load balancing process,
 the server connects to the node with the highest rating for the ser-
 vice desired. This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes
 that offer the service.

 This feature is supported only for LAT connections.

 Multiple Sessions

 The DECserver 300 allows each user to establish and maintain up to eight
 sessions to one or more service nodes, up to a maximum of 128 per DEC-
 server 300. Only one session per user can be active at a time. Through
 simple switching commands, the user can access the different sessions
 without repeating a login dialogue each time. Some operating systems
 may impose limits on the number of LAT or Telnet sessions which a host
 will support.

 Multiple Session Management

 The DECserver 300 server allows direct communication with devices which
 support the TD/SMP protocol. This protocol provides the ability for
 the attached device to maintain screen and keyboard context for the
 multiple LAT or Telnet sessions which the DECserver 300 provides. By
 implementing the ability to directly communicate with this protocol
 to the attached device, the DECserver 300 can now assist in the man-
 agement of context of these multiple sessions, as well as allow for
 simultaneous output to multiple LAT or Telnet sessions being maintained
 by the device.

 Outbound Connection Queues





                                  7

 

 If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and the requested
 service is currently in use, the terminal server user may opt to have
 the connection requested queued to the remote service. If the user's
 port has been appropriately configured, this feature happens automat-
 ically whenever a connection fails for this reason. The connection re-
 quest is queued at the service node end and is processed first-in/first-
 out until such time as the user's connection request can be completed.
 This feature assists in the fair management of limited network resources.
 Once queued for connection, the user also has the option to cancel the
 queue entry and proceed with other sessions. This feature is supported
 only for LAT connections.

 Command Line Recall and Editing

 The DECserver 300 server supports multiple command line entry recall
 and editing.

 Welcome Identification

 The DECserver 300 server standard welcome banner, which includes ter-
 minal server type, version number, internal base-level, and protocol
 version number, is issued whenever a user successfully logs in to the
 server. The server will also print a server manager settable identi-
 fication string. This can be useful for automatic server identifica-
 tion, or for small daily messages used for communication with the ter-
 minal server users.

 Local Mode and Service Mode

 For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver 300 is
 identical to the environment the user would experience if attached di-
 rectly to the service node. When operating in this mode, the user is
 said to be in Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connection
 establishment, the user interacts directly with the DECserver 300. When
 operating in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

 In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by DECserver
 300 as commands to be performed by the server.


                                  8

 

 Additional commands and displays to support the features available with
 the TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode. These commands will be
 used to enable or disable server recognition of the TD/SMP commands.

 Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, non-
 privileged, and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the Server Man-
 ager to control the environment of the server and of the terminal users.
 Access to this mode is password protected. Nonprivileged commands al-
 low terminal users to control their service sessions, set the termi-
 nal characteristics, and show server information. The Server Manager
 can set the server to secure mode on a per-terminal basis, which fur-
 ther limits the commands users can enter to commands directly related
 to the user's own terminal.

 The Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the user en-
 vironment. The Server Manager is treated as a server user with a priv-
 ileged status. The Server Manager sets a terminal to this status us-
 ing a command which requires a password. This privileged status al-
 lows the Server Manager to enter commands not normally available to
 server users. These commands set server characteristics, provide con-
 trol over server port usage, and provide the ability to control the
 user's access to the server and network services.

 In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected
 service node with several exceptions. One exception, called the lo-
 cal switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Ser-
 vice Mode. The <BREAK> key may also be used for this function. Other
 exceptions, called the forward and backward switch characters, allow
 the user to switch between sessions without the need to enter local
 mode. The switch characters are disabled by default but may be enabled
 by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally
 but flow control using these characters can be disabled.

 Autoconnection

 Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user ter-
 minal to a service node when connection failures occur or upon user
 login to the server. In conjunction with this function, a dedicated
 or preferred service can be specified for each terminal user.

                                  9

 

 If a dedicated service is specified, the DECserver 300 will attempt
 to connect to that service when a character is typed on the terminal
 keyboard or when an existing connection fails. In dedicated service
 mode, only one session is available. As this mode is designed to sim-
 ulate a direct terminal connection, no local mode commands or messages
 are available to the terminal user. Ports with dedicated service can
 be automatically logged out of the server when the user logs out of
 the service node.

 If a preferred service is specified, the DECserver 300 will attempt
 to connect to that service as with the dedicated service mode of op-
 eration. However, the terminal user can enter local mode and estab-
 lish other sessions.

 Automatic Protocol Selection

 It is possible to automatically connect to an Internet host or LAT ser-
 vice without explicitly identifying the connection as LAT or Telnet.
 If the port is configured with a value for the default protocol as "ANY,"
 the server will attempt a LAT connection first to the name specified
 in the LAT service field. If the service is not available or unknown,
 the terminal server will then automatically attempt a Telnet connec-
 tion to Internet host specified in the command.

 Automatic Session Failover

 If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connec-
 tion to a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user
 to another service node offering the same service. The user does not
 have to be connected to that service node. Furthermore, the user's con-
 text at the time of failure is not automatically restored and login
 to the new service is required. This feature is supported only for LAT
 connections.

 Groups





                                 10

 

 Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one
 or more groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 to 255.
 Groups allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what ap-
 pears to be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only aware of
 the services that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

 The Server Manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a ter-
 minal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of services
 that the user is allowed to access. In addition, for those nodes that
 implement group codes, a user can further limit access to services by
 disabling some of the authorized groups using a non-privileged group
 command. The user-settable group codes are a subset of the authorized
 groups.

 Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view
 is mainly for user convenience. Groups apply only to LAT connections.

 Security

 The DECserver 300 provides functions which enhance security features
 already available in the service nodes. DECserver 300 security includes
 the ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users, optional
 login protection, and nonprivileged local mode of operation as a de-
 fault.

 A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the
 user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of secu-
 rity violations. When a terminal is locked, all input from the ter-
 minal is ignored until the lock password is re-entered. The lock fea-
 ture may be disabled by the Server Manager.

 Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode, which causes
 all commands that relate to other users to be disabled for that port.

 Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the server man-
 ager. If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to ac-
 cess server functions.



                                 11

 

 DECserver 300 users normally have access to the nonprivileged local
 mode. In this mode, users may only issue commands that effect their
 own terminal environment. The server has a privileged mode for server
 manager's use. The mode is password protected.

 Online HELP Facility

 A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP
 command provides information on the correct syntax and details about
 each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users
 to quickly learn the basics of DECserver 300 operation. Tutorial HELP
 may be entered upon logging into the server.

 Directory Service

 Any DECserver 300 user can obtain a directory of services available
 to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the user
 is not authorized will not be displayed. Services apply only to LAT
 connections.

 Permanent Characteristics

 The DECserver 300 maintains permanent characteristics in nonvolatile
 memory, which is retained even when the power is disconnected. Per-
 manent characteristics are maintained for service and server param-
 eters as well as per-port parameters. Permanent characteristics can
 be reset to factory defaults by pressing the software reset button on
 the hardware unit while plugging in the power cord.

 Port Characteristics Configuration

 Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be
 displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from the user's
 terminal. Many of the characteristics may be set by the user, but cer-
 tain characteristics are privileged and may only be changed by the Server
 Manager.

 Port parameters that can be set and displayed include speed, charac-
 ter size, group codes, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, de-
 fault protocol, and password protection.

                                 12

 

 Port Access

 A port on a DECserver 300 may be configured in different ways depend-
 ing on the device attached to the port and its intended use. DECserver
 300 uses MMJs (Modified Modular Jacks) as the physical interface. The
 DECserver 300 utilizes EIA 423-A electrical interface standard for lo-
 cal connections, which is compatible with the EIA 232-D interface and
 supports sixteen asynchronous devices operating at speeds up to 19.2K
 bps with DTR/DSR (Data Terminal Ready/Data Terminal Set Ready) sig-
 naling.

 Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port may ac-
 cess or be accessed by interactive users and service nodes.

 o  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the
    device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to
    CONNECT to LAT or Telnet.

 o  Access Remote - Designed for application-driven devices such as asyn-
    chronous printers which are allocated by a service node process.
    This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by mul-
    tiple service nodes.

 o  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal computers
    or printers with keyboards) which require both Local and Remote ac-
    cess.

 o  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the
    use of a port.

 With printer support capabilities, the configuration procedure of re-
 mote printers needs to be done once and will be automatically recon-
 figured on system startup. The particular server port must be config-
 ured for remote access and set up to match the characteristics of the
 printer. The system startup command file must be modified to call the
 two command files provided with the service node software. Finally,
 the command files themselves must be customized to reflect the envi-
 ronment of their node. The server can optionally queue remote connects


                                 13

 

 if these connects cannot be satisfied immediately. This queue manage-
 ment can be enabled for the server by the Server Manager. Note that
 this is a connection queue only.

 Improved printer sharing allows a printer port on the terminal server
 to be shared between LAT users and ULTRIX or UNIX lpr users.

 Terminal Operation

 The DECserver 300 software supports the simultaneous operation of up
 to sixteen asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to 19.2K bps.
 The software also supports:

 o  Data leads only support

 o  DSR logout

 o  Signal check

 o  Signal control

 o  DSR/DTR flow control

 o  XON/XOFF flow control

 o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

 o  Block Mode transfers up to 512 bytes

 o  Automatic line speed detection

 o  Digital personal computer file transfer

 o  Data transparency mode

 o  Ability to pass break character and error notification

 o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP

 Server Management

 Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server op-
 eration. The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up server iden-
 tification information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the
 operating characteristics of the server. Troubleshooting facilities

                                 14

 

 include diagnostic tests, a remote console feature, and online statis-
 tics.

 A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by loop-
 ing messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware in-
 terface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can ex-
 ecute a command to transmit test data to their terminal, or the Server
 Manager can send test data to any terminal.

 The capability also exists for the Server Manager to test a service
 connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service node
 and back again. The data is then compared and any discrepancies re-
 ported. At the service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT
 protocol, or internally or externally at the service port. This fea-
 ture is supported only by DECserver 300 service nodes; VAX/VMS service
 nodes do not support this service loopback capability.

 The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These in-
 clude the following: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statis-
 tics, and port error statistics. This data can be displayed and ze-
 roed by the Server Manager. Server parameters that can be modified and
 displayed include the server identification, circuit timer, session
 limits, and login limits.

 Internet statistics are also maintained by the server. Internet char-
 acteristics such as Internet address and subnet mask can be modified
 and displayed. IP, ICMP, TCP, IP, UDP, DNS, and SNMP protocol statis-
 tics can be displayed.

 Remote Server Management

 The DECserver 300 implements the console carrier feature which enables
 access to the DECserver 300 local mode from a Phase IV or V DECnet host
 on the same LAN. With the exception of remote console port configu-
 ration, the entire local mode user interface is accessible to the re-
 mote console carrier user. This includes the privileged commands if
 the user knows the server's privileged password. This capability al-
 lows centralized server management and remote server diagnosis.

 The Telnet Remote Console feature is also available as stated above.

                                 15

 

 Communications

 DECserver 300 software is designed to run on DECserver 300 hardware
 exclusively, which includes an Ethernet interface for connection to
 an Ethernet transceiver cable.

 The DECserver 300 hardware has sixteen Modified Modular Jacks (MMJs)
 integral to the box. Each port can be individually configured in var-
 ious modes:

 o  Data leads only

 o  Signal control

 o  Data leads with DSR logout (if a terminal is powered down the ses-
    sion is automatically disconnected)

 o  Data leads with signal check (checks signal status before and dur-
    ing a session)

 o  DSR/DTR flow control

 DECserver 300 Operation

 The DECserver 300 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary mainte-
 nance operation protocols for downline loading DECserver 300 software
 from a Phase IV or V DECnet load host over the Ethernet into server
 memory. All self-test diagnostics are in DECserver 300 ROM and are ex-
 ecuted on power-up prior to downline loading the server. In the event
 of a bugcheck caused by a fatal error, the unit will normally attempt
 to upline dump server memory to a DECnet Phase IV or V load host. Fol-
 lowing this, the unit will automatically initialize itself and invoke
 a downline load.

 DECserver 300 Configuration and Performance

 The process of configuring the DECserver 300 is based primarily on trade-
 offs of cost and performance within the realm of satisfying user ap-
 plication requirements. Network applications will range from low-speed
 /low-cost to those of relatively high performance (e.g., connecting
 high-speed local terminals to local hosts within a local area network).

                                 16

 

 The performance of a given server is a function of the expected net-
 work traffic, the load on hosts to which terminals are connected, and
 resultant processing pursuant to the dedicated function of the unit.
 Thus performance depends on several factors:

 o  Number of terminals

 o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

 o  Terminal speeds

 o  Terminal user applications

 o  Number and size of host buffers

 o  Terminal workload

 The DECserver 300 can sustain an aggregate character throughput of 30,720
 characters per second. This is equivalent to running sixteen ports at
 19,200 bps.

 In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a Digi-
 tal software specialist should perform a level of application anal-
 ysis which addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data through-
 put cannot be calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line
 speed, since many factors already discussed in this section may re-
 duce the actual throughput.

 Restrictions on DECserver 300 Usage

 While terminal connections using the DECserver 300 have been designed
 to simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a few dif-
 ferences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product. Un-
 der most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by termi-
 nal users or service node application programs. However, applications
 which are directly dependent on the following functions may not op-
 erate as with a direct connection:

 o  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed,
    character size, and parity by manipulating system data structures

 o  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typ-
    ically less than 200 ms) to operate

                                 17

 

 o  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the ser-
    vice node

 o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
    names

 The DECserver 300 does not support the use of modems.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For VAX Systems:

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 25.J1.04-x included in this file).

 For MS-DOS Systems:

 Processors supported (Load Host System)

 Personal Computer: DECstation, DECpc, or Industry Standard PC

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For VAX Systems:

 VMS Operating System

 DECnet-VAX

 For MS-DOS Systems:

 MS-DOS Operating System

 PATHWORKS for DOS

 *  Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
    versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.J1.04-x).

 Refer to the following Software Product Description for information
 on other supported DECserver 300 systems:
 DECserver 300 for ULTRIX (SPD 25.J2.xx)

                                 18

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-VTUA9-AA

 Software Media: QA-VTUAA-H*

 Software Documentation: QA-VTUAA-GZ

 Software Product Services: QT-VTUAA-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
 about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
 ital office.

 The DECserver 300 software license applies to the DECserver 300 on which
 the server software runs, not to service host node CPUs in the net-
 work.

 This product does not provide support for the VMS License Management
 Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for in-
 stallation or use of this version of the product.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.









                                 19

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 [R] AT and IBM are registered trademarks of International Business
    Machines Corporation.

 [R] MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECconnect, DECmate, DECnet, DEC-
    server, DECstation, DELNI, DEMPR, Digital, LA, LAT, LXY, Mi-
    croVAX, OpenVMS, RX, ThinWire, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster,
    VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VT100 are trademarks
    of Digital Equipment Corporation.

 © 1997 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.



















                                 20
 

 System
 Support
 Addendum

 ___________________________________________________________________
 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 300 for VMS[*] and MS-DOS[R], Version 2.2c SSA
 25.J1.04-A

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors Supported

           VAXft Model 110,
           VAXft Model 310,
           VAXft Model 410,
           VAXft Model 610,
           VAXft Model 612

 VAX:      VAX 4000 Model 100,
           VAX 4000 Model 200,
           VAX 4000 Model 300,
           VAX 4000 Model 400,
           VAX 4000 Model 500,
           VAX 4000 Model 600

           VAX 6000 Model 200 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 300 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 400 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 500 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 600 Series



 ____________________

 The   terms OpenVMS and VMS refer to the OpenVMS operating system.


                               DIGITAL                   August 1997

                                                         AE-NE48G-TE

 


           VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300,
           VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530,
           VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VAX 8650,
           VAX 8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810,
           VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

           VAX 9000 Model 110,
           VAX 9000 Model 210,
           VAX 9000 Model 300 Series,
           VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

           VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750,
           VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785

 MicroVAX: MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 10/10E,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 20/20E,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 30,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 40,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 80,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 90,
           MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400,
           MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600,
           MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900

 VAXstation:VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 30,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 38,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 40,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 48,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 76,
           VAXstation 3200, VAXstation 3500,
           VAXstation 3520, VAXstation 3540

           VAXstation 4000 Model 60,




                                  2

 


           VAXstation 4000 Model 90,
           VAXstation 4000 VLC

 VAXserver: VAXserver 3100 Model 10/10E,
           VAXservice 3100 Model 20/20E,
           VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 3400, VAXserver 3500,
           VAXserver 3600, VAXserver 3602, VAXserver 3800,
           VAXserver 3900

           VAXserver 4000 Model 200,
           VAXserver 4000 Model 300,
           VAXserver 4000 Model 500

           VAXserver 6000 Model 210,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 220,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 310,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 320,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 410,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 420,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 510,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 520,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 610,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 620,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 630

 Personal  DECstation Series,
 Comput-   DECpc Series, or
 ers:      Industry Standard PC

 Processors Not Supported

 MicroVAX I, VAXstation I, VAXstation 8000,
 VAX-11/725, VAX-11/782

 The DECserver 300 software runs on any of the following packaged hard-
 ware options:



                                  3

 

 DSRVF-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available mod-
    els, refer to the appropriate price book.

 The following DECconnect cables and accessories are available for the
 DECserver 300:

 BC16E-10  DECconnect office cable with MMP
 /25/50

 H8572     Coupler/Extender, 6-pin MMJ cable

 H8571-A   Passive adapter, 25-pin DSUB male to MMJ

 H8571-C   Passive adapter, 25-pin DSUB female to MMJ (unfiltered)

 H8571-D   Passive adapter, 25-pin DSUB female to MMJ (filtered)

 H8571-B   Passive adapter, 9-pin DSUB male to MMJ

 H8220     Pack of 50 MMJs

 H3103     Loopback, 6-pin MMJ

 BC23P-10  Cable assembly for DECconnect SER and OCC cabs. Un-
           shielded

 BC23R-10  Cable assembly for DECconnect SER and OCC cabs. Shielded

 The DECserver hardware requires both a transceiver drop cable and Eth-
 ernet connection, H4005 or DELNI, to connect to a Thickwire Ethernet
 physical channel or a DEMPR/DESPR to connect from a ThinWire segment
 to Thickwire Ethernet. The DECserver 300 supports both Thickwire and
 ThinWire connections integral to the box.

 OPTIONAL HARDWARE

 Terminals Supported

 The DECserver 300 software supports the following Digital terminal de-
 vices that have keyboards:

 o  LA12, LA34, LA35, LA36, LA38

 o  All VTxxx terminals

                                  4

 

 Supported terminal parameters are:

 o  Character size: 7 or 8 bits per character

 o  Parity: Even, Odd, or None

 The automatic line speed detection (Autobaud) feature is supported for
 either 7-bit characters with even parity or 8-bit characters with no
 parity.

 The DECserver 300 software also supports Digital Asian terminal de-
 vice variants when accessed from VMS/Hanzi systems. Please refer to
 the VMS/Hanzi Software Product Description for a complete listing of
 supported devices.

 The DECserver 300 software also supports Digital Asian terminal de-
 vice variants when accessed from VMS/Japanese systems. Please refer
 to the VMS/Japanese Software Product Description for a complete list-
 ing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 300 software also supports the following Digital Per-
 sonal Computers (PCs) in both terminal emulation mode and file trans-
 fer mode:

 o  Professional 325, 350, 380

 o  Rainbow 100A, 100B, 100+, 190

 o  DECmate II

 o  DECmate III

 o  VAXmate

 o  DECstation

 Note: This product is not warranted to support non-Digital terminal
 devices or personal computers. However, terminals supporting VT100-
 or VT200-like characteristics and personal computers supporting IBM[R]
 PC, IBM PC/XT, and IBM PC/AT[R] characteristics may operate with this
 product.

 Printers Supported

                                  5

 

 The DECserver 300 software supports the following Digital asynchronous
 printers when accessed from VMS systems:

 o  All LJ, LA, LQP, LXY, LN0, LG, and DTC printing devices

 The DECserver 300 software also supports Digital Asian printer device
 variants when accessed from VMS/Hanzi systems. Please refer to the VMS
 /Hanzi Software Product Description for a complete listing of supported
 devices.

 The DECserver 300 software also supports Digital Asian printer device
 variants when accessed from VMS/Japanese systems. Please refer to the
 VMS/Japanese Software Product Description for a complete listing of
 supported devices.

 Modems Supported

 The DECserver 300 does not support the use of modems.

 Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1):

 Disk space required for    3,050 blocks
 installation:
                            (1.5 Mbytes)

 Disk space required for    2,750 blocks
 use (permanent):
                            (1.4 Mbytes)

 These counts refer to the disk space required on the downline load host
 system disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depend-
 ing on the user's system environment, configuration, and software op-
 tions.







                                  6

 

 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

 This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
 and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The HARD-
 WARE REQUIREMENTS sections of this product's Software Product Descrip-
 tion and System Support Addendum detail and special hardware required
 by this product.

 *  V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
    ter Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
    ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For VAX Systems:

 VMS Operating System V5.0 - V5.5

 DECnet-VAX (Phase IV) V5.0 - V5.5

 VMS Tailoring:

 For VMS V5.x systems, the following VMS classes are required for full
 functionality of this layered product:

 o  VMS Required Saveset

 o  Network Support

 o  Utilities

 For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS
 Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)

 For MS-DOS[R] Systems:

 For each MS-DOS system acting as a load host or dump receiver:

 MS-DOS Operating System V3.1, V3.3, V4.01, V5.0

 PATHWORKS for DOS V4.1

                                  7

 

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 Terminal Server Manager V1.6

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 For VAX Systems:

 TK50 Streaming Tape, 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape

 For MS-DOS Systems:

 RX31 and RX24

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software License: QL-VTUA9-AA
 Software Media: QA-VTUAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-VTUAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VTUAA-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact you
 local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

 [R] AT and IBM are registered trademarks of International Business
    Machines Corporation.

 [R] MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.



                                  8

 


 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECconnect, DECmate, DECnet, DEC-
    server, DECstation, DELNI, DEMPR, Digital, LA, LAT, LXY, Mi-
    croVAX, OpenVMS, RX, ThinWire, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster,
    VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VT100 are trademarks
    of Digital Equipment Corporation.

 © 1997 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.





























                                  9
