 






           DIGITAL


           Read Before You Install: DIGITAL DECintact Version 3.0B for
           OpenVMS

           AV-LW27G-TE

           Description

           The DIGITAL[TM] DECintact [TM] Version 3.0B product release deliv-
           ers the following:

           o  Maintenance for problems reported since the last product re-
              lease, details of which are identified in the DECintact V3.0B
              Release Notes.

           o  A description of Year 2000 compliance

              DECintact has been tested by DIGITAL and declared as function-
              ally Year 2000 ready. However, depending on how an application
              has been coded to use DECintact's date manipulation routines,
              some year 2000 issues at the application level may arise.
              Please refer to the Release Notes for a detailed description
              of DECintact's Year 2000 Readiness and related information that
              you should be aware of.

           Installation Information

           The DECintact Supplemental Information and Installation Guide out-
           lines the specific steps for installing DECintact on the OpenVMS
           Alpha platform. It also identifies changes that apply to the ex-
           isting documentation set and new information pertaining to DECin-
           tact.

           Read the DECintact Supplemental Information and Installation Guide
           and the DECintact Release Notes for any specific restrictions that
           may apply to your environment.


           Release Notes

           The release notes for DECintact Version 3.0B contain the details
           of the items addressed with this release and the Year 2000 Readi-
           ness statement. They also include a summary of late breaking in-
           formation, such as known problems, restrictions and installation-
           related instructions.

           After you install DECintact, the release notes can be found in:

              SYS$HELP:DECINTACTB030.RELEASE_NOTES

           For information on accessing the release notes before installa-
           tion, refer to the DECintact documentation set.

 






           Trademarks

           The following are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation:
           DIGITAL, the DIGITAL logo, DECintact and OpenVMS.

















































            ©Digital  Equipment Corporation. August 1998. All Rights Reserved.


                                            2
