 






           DIGITAL


           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, Version 3.5

           Cover Letter

           AV-Q2ENC-TE

           This Cover Letter lists the new features that have been introduced
           in Version 3.5 of the Message Router VMSmail Gateway.

           It also describes how to install Version 3.5 of the Message Router
           VMSmail Gateway. Details of these changes are given in the Release
           Notes and the Installation Guide.

           New Features

           o  Message Router VMSmail Gateway V3.5 is Year 2000 Ready. It
              will be unaffected by the rollover caused by the turn of the
              century.

           o  The following address for Reader's comments as documented in
              the books is no longer relevant:

              -  Internet : migbooks@reo.mts.dec.com

              -  X.400 : S=migbooks; O=digital; OU1=reo; P=digital; A=gold
                 400; C=gb

              Any comments on documentation should be directed to the local
              customer support centres or if the readers have some comments
              to send they should use the prepaid readers' comments forms, if
              they are supplied at the back of the book. In all cases, please
              include the part number of the appropriate guide when providing
              comments.

           o  This version of Message Router VMSmail Gateway V3.5 follows
              V3.3A. Please note that there is no Version 3.4 available.

           Installing the Gateway

           Enter the following command to install Version 3.5 of the Gateway:

              $ @SYS$UPDATE:VMSINSTAL MRGATE035 device OPTIONS N

           where:

           o  MRGATE035 is the identity of the product being installed.

           o  device is the name of the device where the distribution medium
              is to be mounted, for example, MTA0.

           o  OPTIONS N provides the option of reading or printing the online
              release notes.

           The VMSINSTAL procedure then starts and proceeds as described in
           Section 3.2 of the VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway Installation
           Guide.

 






           Customers who have Message Router VMSmail Gateway V3.2 or later
           can upgrade to V3.5 directly. Customers who have earlier versions
           need to install at least V3.2 and then upgrade to V3.5.

           VMSINSTAL asks you whether you have a Product Authorization Key
           (PAK) for V3.5. Answer YES if you have a License PAK for V3.2 or
           V3.3 of the Gateway, because V3.3A uses the same PAK as V3.2 and
           V3.3. If you have a License PAK for V3.2 or V3.3 of the Gateway,
           you do not need a new PAK for V3.5 of the Gateway.

           However, if you have a Nonlicense PAK for V3.2 or V3.3 of the
           Gateway, you should update the PAK to allow you to run V3.35 of
           the Gateway. If you are not sure whether you have a License PAK
           or Nonlicense PAK, examine the Authorization Number data field on
           the PAK. If the second and third characters correspond to the list
           below, you have a Nonlicense PAK:

              FT, IM, QM, RE, SI, SP, TC, TP, TS, WS






































                                            2

 






           Digital Equipment Corporation makes no representations that the
           use of its products in the manner described in this publication
           will not infringe on existing or future patent rights, nor do the
           descriptions contained in this publication imply the granting of
           licenses to make, use, or sell equipment or software in accordance
           with the description.

           Possession, use, or copying of the software described in this
           publication is authorized only pursuant to a valid written license
           from Digital or an authorized sublicensor.

           The following are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation:
           ALL-IN-1, DEC MAILworks, Digital, Message Router, VAX.








































                ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1998. All rights reserved.


                                            3
