 






           DIGITAL


           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, Version 3.5

           Cover Letter

           AV-Q2EQB-TE


           This Cover Letter lists the new features that have been listed in
           Version 3.5 of Message Router Programmer's Kit.

           It also describes how to install Version 3.5 of the Message Router
           Programmer's Kit. Details of these changes are given in the Re-
           lease Notes and the Installation Guide.

           New Features

           o  Message Router Programmer's Kit V3.5 is Year 2000 Ready. It
              will be unaffected by the rollover caused by the turn of the
              century.

           o  The following address for Reader's comments as documented in
              the books is no longer relevant:

              -  Internet : migbooks@reo.mts.dec.com

              -  X.400 : S=migbooks; O=digital; OU1=reo; P=digital; A=gold
                 400; C=gb

              Any comments on documentation should be directed to the local
              customer support centres or if the readers have some comments
              to send they should use the prepaid readers' comments forms, if
              they are supplied at the back of the book. In all cases, please
              include the part number of the appropriate guide when providing
              comments.

           o  This version of Message Router Programmer's Kit V3.5 follows
              V3.3A. Please note that there is no Version 3.4 available.

           Installing the Programmer's Kit

           When you install Version 3.5 of the Programmer's Kit, VMSINSTAL
           asks you whether you have a Product Authorization Key (PAK) for
           Version 3.5. Answer YES if you have a License PAK for Version 3.2
           of the Programmer's Kit, because Version 3.3 uses the same PAK
           as Version 3.2. If you have a License PAK for Version 3.2 of the
           Programmer's Kit, you do not need a new PAK for Version 3.3 of the
           Programmer's Kit.

           With the exception of the VMSINSTAL command (shown below) to in-
           stall VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit V3.5, the installation
           procedure is the same as for V3.3. Refer to the VAX Message Router
           Programmer's Kit Installation Guide for details of the installa-
           tion procedure.

 






           The command to install VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit V3.5
           is:

              @SYS$UPDATE:VMSINSTAL MRIF035 device OPTIONS N

           where device is the name of the device where the distribution
           medium is to be mounted.

















































                                            2

 






           Digital Equipment Corporation makes no representations that the
           use of its products in the manner described in this publication
           will not infringe on existing or future patent rights, nor do the
           descriptions contained in this publication imply the granting of
           licenses to make, use, or sell equipment or software in accordance
           with the description.

           Possession, use, or copying of the software described in this
           publication is authorized only pursuant to a valid written license
           from Digital or an authorized sublicensor.

           The following are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation:
           DECnet, DIGITAL, MAILbus, and the DIGITAL logo.

           OSI is a registered trademark of CA Management, Inc.

           UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
           countries licensed exclusively through X/Open Company Ltd.



































                ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1998. All rights reserved.


                                            3
