 






          DIGITAL

                  Read Before Installing MUXserver 300 for VMS V1.3

             AV-PG09B-TE

             Whether you are a new or continuing MUXserver 300 customer,
             please take time to read the following information about the
             product.

             Installation Information

             MUXserver 300 V1.3 requires Version 5.1 or higher of the VMS
             operating system.

             Release Note Information

             The release notes for MUXserver 300 V1.3 contain important
             installation-related instructions and a summary of known
             problems, corrected errors, restrictions and incompatibili-
             ties.

             You can read the release notes before installing MUXserver
             300 V 1.3 by invoking VMSINSTAL and following the in-
             structions that start the installation procedure. You can
             also read the release notes following the installation of
             MUXserver 300 V1.3 by typing:

                 TYPE/PAGE SYS$HELP:MS3$013.RELEASE_NOTES

             Contents of this Kit

             o  Indented Bill Report (BIL) and Bill of Materials (BOM)

                Please read the BIL and BOM enclosed in this kit and
                check that all items listed are actually in your kit.
                If your kit is damaged or if any item is missing, call
                your Digital representative.

             o  Media

                If you ordered media, you will find it in this kit.

                                                                         1

 






             o  Documentation

                This kit includes a copy of the following documentation:

                   MUXserver 300 Software Installation Guide (VMS)

             o  Software Product Description (SPD)

                The SPD provides an overview of the MUXserver 300 for VMS
                V1.3 and its features.

             o  Software Performance Report (SPR)

                If you have purchased warranty services, use this form to
                report any problems with MUXserver 300 for VMS V1.3.

             o  Software Update Survey Card

                By completing and returning this card after installing
                MUXserver 300 for VMS V1.3, you provide valuable feedback
                to Digital on installation quality. Your feedback helps us
                to understand customer needs and to improve our products.

              © Digital Equipment Corporation. 1992. All rights reserved.















          2
