 






      COMPAQ


      Read Before Installing or Using Compaq Pascal Version 5.8
      for OpenVMS VAX

      AV-RGMRB-TE

      November 2000

      Please take time to read this entire document before installing
      or using Compaq Pascal Version 5.8 for OpenVMS VAX.

                                    NOTE

         Compaq Pascal was formerly known as DEC Pascal. Refer-
         ences to DEC Pascal in product components are the same as
         references to Compaq Pascal.

      Installation Information

      Compaq Pascal Version 5.8 for OpenVMS VAX requires OpenVMS VAX
      Version 5.5 or later.

      The OpenVMS VAX Layered Products media consists of two compact
      discs:

      o  Layered Products Software Binaries Compact Disc, elsewhere in
         this document called the media CD-ROM, contains the kit save
         sets and related documentation in ASCII and POSTSCRIPT form.

      o  Layered Products documentation CD-ROM contains documentation
         files in Bookreader format.

      Compaq Pascal now allows you to keep multiple versions of the
      compiler on your system. For more information, see the Compaq
      Pascal Installation Guide for OpenVMS.



                      ©2000  Compaq Computer Corporation


      ___________________
      + COMPAQ, DEC, DECwindows, VAX, VMS and the Compaq logo Regis-
        tered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  OpenVMS is a
        trademark of Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P.

     ++ POSTSCRIPT is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.
       
                              

 







      Contents of the Media CD-ROM

      The media CD-ROM contains the kit save sets and related documen-
      tation as follows:

      o  The Compaq Pascal installation save sets, located in:

            [PASCAL058.KIT]

      o  The Compaq Pascal Installation Guide for OpenVMS, this Read
         Before Installing letter, and the Software Product Descrip-
         tion (SPD) provided as files in POSTSCRIPT (.PS) form and
         ASCII (.TXT) form in the following directories:

            [PASCAL058.POST_DOCS]*.PS
            [PASCAL058.LINE_DOCS]*.TXT


      Release Notes Information

      The release notes for Compaq Pascal Version 5.8 for OpenVMS
      VAX contain installation-related instructions and a summary of
      technical changes, known problems, restrictions, and incompat-
      ibilities. To read the release notes before installing Compaq
      Pascal, invoke VMSINSTAL and follow the instructions in the
      installation guide.

      After installing Compaq Pascal, the release notes for the com-
      piler are located in:

         SYS$HELP:PASCAL058.RELEASE_NOTES


      License Management Facility Information

      A License Management Facility (LMF) Product Authorization Key
      (PAK) must be registered and loaded before you can install
      Compaq Pascal. The LMF name for Compaq Pascal is PASCAL.

      For more information, see the Compaq Pascal Installation Guide
      for OpenVMS. For information on LMF requirements needed to read
      the Compaq Pascal documentation using Bookreader, refer to the
      media CD-ROM Read First letter.





                                      2

 



      Contents of the Media Kit

      o  Bill of Materials

         Please read the Bill of Materials (BOM) enclosed in this kit
         and check to see that all items listed are actually in your
         kit. If your kit is damaged or any items are missing, call
         your Compaq representative.

      o  Media

         On the media CD-ROM, you will find the Compaq Pascal di-
         rectory and installation save sets. For information about
         installing Compaq Pascal on your system, see the Compaq Pas-
         cal Installation Guide for OpenVMS (provided as a file on the
         media CD-ROM).

      o  CD-ROM User's Guide and Read First Letter

         The OpenVMS VAX Layered Products Compact Disc User's Guide
         and a Read First letter accompany the CD-ROM distribution
         kit. Both are on line only. The CD-ROM user's guide:

         -  Lists the directory names provided for each product on the
            media CD-ROM

         -  Describes how to use Bookreader to read the Bookreader-
            formatted files from the documentation CD-ROM device

      o  Compaq Pascal Documentation

         Depending on how you order the final product, your installa-
         tion kit may include printed copies of the following Compaq
         Pascal manuals:

         -  Compaq Pascal Installation Guide for OpenVMS

         -  Compaq Pascal User Manual for OpenVMS

         -  Compaq Pascal Language Reference Manual

         To order the complete printed documentation set, contact your
         Compaq representative.

                                       NOTE

            Compaq Pascal Version 5.8 for OpenVMS VAX Systems uti-
            lizes previously issued documentation. Use the Version
            5.7 documentation, as shipped with this release, as
            your documentation. In particular, use the Version 5.7
            installation guide to install the product.


                                      3



 

         Compaq Pascal documents are provided as Bookreader-formatted
         files on the documentation CD-ROM device. To enable access
         to these files, your system manager should refer to the BKB
         environment variable, as described in the OpenVMS VAX Layered
         Products Compact Disc User's Guide in the CD-ROM distribution
         kit.

         To read the Compaq Pascal documents on line, use Bookreader
         from a DECwindows terminal or workstation:

         -  Invoke the Bookreader (see the OpenVMS VAX Layered
            Products Disc User's Guide); the initial or navigation
            Bookreader window appears.

         -  Within the navigation window, select the topic "Program-
            ming Languages and Tools."

         -  Select the topic "Compaq Pascal."

         -  Select the appropriate Compaq Pascal document; the table
            of contents will appear.

      o  Software Product Description

         The SPD provides an overview of the Compaq Pascal product and
         describes the technical environment in which the product is
         supported. The SPD is provided on line on the media CD-ROM.

      Compaq Services

      A variety of service and support options are available from
      Compaq. For more information, contact your local Compaq sales
      office.

      Reader's Comments

      Compaq appreciates your comments. If you would like to comment
      on a Compaq Pascal manual, please send the manual title, order
      number, and your comments by one of the following methods:

      o  Email to: LanguageDocs@Compaq.com

      o  FAX: 603-884-0120
         Attn: Languages Documentation, ZK02-3/K35

      o  A letter sent to the following address:

         Compaq Computer Corporation
         Languages Documentation, ZK02-3/K35
         110 Spit Brook Road
         Nashua, NH 03062-2698


                                      4
