 






                                                               AV-QDKNK-TE


                                                            September 2002

          Dear Save Set Manager Customer:

          In an effort to provide continuously improved storage management
          software capability to our customers, Compaq offers Compaq Save
          Set Manager (SSMgr) for OpenVMS VAX[TM] and Alpha[TM] Version
          1.6 software.

          SSMgr is a layered software product that reduces user time spent
          on save set operations by providing capability for offline
          save set validation, copy, merge, and support for bound disk
          volumes. SSMgr therefore improves productivity by reducing
          backup windows, the number of full backups required, and restore
          times, without compromising data integrity.

          SSMgr for OpenVMS Version 1.6 runs on OpenVMS Versions 6.2,
          7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 on the VAX platform, and OpenVMS Versions 6.2,
          7.1-2, 7.2-1, 7.2-2, 7.3 and 7.3-1 on the Alpha platform.

          The distinct improvement in functionality in SSMgr Version 1.6
          over the previous version, is:

          -  This is the first PCSI SSM kit

          -  Qualification for the OpenVMS Alpha 7.3-1 release

          OpenVMS Version 7.2-2 and 7.3X provide support for Fibre Channel
          (FC) connected tape devices. This is accomplished through the
          use of Modular Data Router (MDR) or Network Storage Router
          (NSR) connected to the FC Switch. Both routers convert Fibre
          Channel protocol to SCSI protocol, which the attached tape
          device understands. SSMgr V1.6 has been qualified on Fibre
          Channel connected devices as outlined/listed in the OpenVMS
          SPD(s).

          Product Support

          If you need assistance with this product, please call the Cus-
          tomer Support Center.

          Thank you for your purchase of Save Set Manager!

          Sincerely,

          OpenVMS Product Management CXOSWPM@hp.com

          © 2002 Compaq Information Group Technologies, LP
