 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  Digital Extended Math Library for OpenVMS[1],    SPD
 31.67.01                Version 2.0

 DESCRIPTION

 Digital Extended Math Library (DXML) is a set of mathematical subrou-
 tines that are optimized for Digital architectures. Four libraries are
 included, covering the areas of Basic Linear Algebra, Linear System
 and Eigenproblem Solvers, Sparse Linear System Solvers, and Signal Pro-
 cessing.

 The Basic Linear Algebra Library includes the industry-standard Ba-
 sic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS) Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3.
 Also included are subprograms for BLAS Level 1 Extensions and Sparse
 BLAS Level 1.

 The Linear System and Eigenproblem Solver Library provides the com-
 plete LAPACK package developed by a consortium of university and gov-
 ernment laboratories. LAPACK is a new, industry-standard package of-
 fering an extensive set of linear system and eigenproblem solvers. LA-
 PACK utilizes blocked algorithms that are better suited to most mod-
 ern architectures, particularly ones with memory hierarchies. LAPACK
 will supersede LINPACK and EISPACK for most users.

 The Sparse System Library provides a set of iterative Sparse Linear
 System Solvers. The solver design is modular and matrix-free, allow-
 ing future expansion and easy modification by users. A basic set of
 storage methods, preconditioners, and iterative solvers is provided.

 ____________________

 The   terms OpenVMS and VMS refer to the OpenVMS operating system.


                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-PBLLB-TE

 

 The Signal Processing Library provides a basic set of signal process-
 ing functions. Included are one-, two-, and three-dimensional Fast Fourier
 Transforms (FFTs), grouped FFTs, Convolution, Correlation, and Dig-
 ital Filters.

 All DXML subprograms are optimized for the supported hardware plat-
 forms. Some key computational modules may be written in assembler lan-
 guage. Optimization techniques include traditional optimizations such
 as loop unrolling and loop reordering. DXML subroutines also provide
 efficient management of the hierarchical memory system, using tech-
 niques such as the following:

 o  Reuse of data within registers to minimize memory accesses

 o  Efficient cache management

 o  Use of blocked algorithms that minimize translation buffer misses
    and unnecessary paging

 Since DXML routines can be called from all languages that are supported
 by the OpenVMS calling standard, the library provides optimized com-
 putation for applications written in other languages than FORTRAN. Where
 appropriate, all routines are available in both real and complex ver-
 sions, as well as in both single and double precision (D and G for-
 mat).

 The OpenVMS version of DXML also provides a special vector library that
 supports and is optimized for the VAX Vector Architecture. The vec-
 tor library uses advanced algorithms tailored to specific operational
 characteristics of the VAX Vector Architecture.

 BLAS Library Contents

 Linear algebra operations are fundamental to vectorized mathematical
 applications and many libraries of linear algebra subroutines exist
 throughout the computer industry. The DXML BLAS library contains the
 most commonly used linear algebra subroutines.



                                  2

 

 The DXML linear algebra library contains six groups of subroutines at
 three levels:

 o  Basic Linear Algebra Subroutines (BLAS) Level 1

 o  BLAS Level 1 Extensions

 o  BLAS Level 1 Sparse Extensions

 o  BLAS Level 2

 o  BLAS Level 3

 o  BLAS Level 3 Extensions

 BLAS Level 1 (Scalar/Vector and Vector/Vector Operations)

 The Level 1 BLAS provide a set of elementary vector functions, oper-
 ating on one or two vectors. These are typically very small subrou-
 tines and depend on assembly language or compiler inlining to make them
 efficient.

 DXML contains the 15 standard BLAS Level 1 operations:

 o  The index of the element of a vector having maximum absolute value

 o  The sum of the absolute values of the elements of a vector

 o  Inner product of two real vectors

 o  Scalar plus the extended precision inner product of two real vec-
    tors

 o  Conjugated inner product of two complex vectors

 o  Unconjugated inner product of two complex vectors

 o  Square root of the sum of squares (norm) of the elements of a vec-
    tor

 o  Scalar times a vector plus a vector

 o  Copy one vector to another

 o  Apply a Givens rotation

 o  Apply a modified Givens plane rotation

                                  3

 

 o  Generate elements for a Givens plane rotation

 o  Generate elements for a modified Givens plane rotation

 o  Product of a vector times a scalar

 o  Swap the elements of two vectors

 BLAS Level 1 Extensions (Vector/Vector Operations)

 When developing mathematical algorithms using the BLAS Level 1, sci-
 entists and engineers found that several additional constructs were
 used on a regular basis. These constructs have also become well known
 throughout the computer industry and are known as BLAS Level 1 exten-
 sions.

 DXML contains 13 BLAS Level 1 extension operations:

 o  Index of element having the minimum absolute value

 o  Index of element having the maximum value

 o  Index of element having the minimum value

 o  Largest value of the elements of a vector

 o  Smallest value of the elements of a vector

 o  Largest absolute value of the elements of a vector

 o  Smallest absolute value of the elements of a vector

 o  Sum of the values of the elements of a vector

 o  Set all elements of a vector equal to a scalar

 o  Constant times a vector set to another vector (y = a*x)

 o  Euclidean norm with no intermediate scaling

 o  Sum of the squares of the elements of a vector

 o  Constant times a vector plus a vector set to another vector (z =
    a*x + y)

 BLAS Level 1 Sparse Extensions (Vector/Vector Operations)

                                  4

 

 This group of operations is similar to the BLAS Level 1 routines, but
 is designed to work on sparse vectors (vectors in which most of the
 elements are zero). Six of the routines are equivalent to the dense
 Level 1 routines, but are modified to work on vectors stored in a com-
 pressed form. Three additional routines are added for convenience.

 BLAS Level 2 (Matrix/Vector Operations)

 The BLAS Level 2 codes make more effective utilization of the data in
 the vector registers, reducing the number of vector loads and stores
 required. In addition, loop unrolling techniques are used to minimize
 cache misses and page faults. The BLAS Level 2 subroutines use the fol-
 lowing types of operations:

 o  Matrix/vector products

 o  Rank-1 and rank-2 matrix updates

 o  Solutions of triangular systems of equations

 Six types of matrices are supported by these BLAS Level 2 routines:

 o  General

 o  General Band

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian Band

 o  Triangular

 o  Triangular Band

 BLAS Level 3 (Matrix/Matrix Operations)

 The BLAS Level 3 routines operate at a level that makes the most ef-
 ficient use of machine resources. DXML optimizes these routines by par-
 titioning matrices into blocks and computing matrix/matrix operations
 on each block. This approach avoids excessive memory accesses by pro-
 viding full reuse of data while each block is in the cache or the reg-
 isters. BLAS Level 3 routines provide this kind of blocking for three
 basic types of operations:

                                  5

 

 o  Matrix/matrix products

 o  Rank-k and rank-2k updates of a symmetric matrix

 o  Solving triangular systems of equations with multiple right-hand
    sides

 Three types of matrices are supported by these BLAS Level 3 routines:

 o  General

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian

 o  Triangular

 BLAS Level 3 Extensions

 A set of additional matrix-matrix routines are provided for convenience.
 The three extensions provided are:

 o  Add two matrices

 o  Subtract one matrix from another

 o  Transpose a matrix, in-place or out-of-place

 LAPACK Library Contents

 LAPACK is a library of linear algebra subroutines intended to solve
 a wide range of problems in linear algebra. LAPACK can be used to solve
 dense systems of linear equations, linear least squares problems, eigen-
 value problems, and singular value problems. It is also useful in do-
 ing other computations such as matrix factorizations and estimations
 of condition numbers.

 The DXML LAPACK Library provides the complete LAPACK package. DXML's
 version of LAPACK is provided as a shareable image, compiled, tested,
 and ready-to-use. Combined with the optimized BLAS Level 3 routines,
 the DXML LAPACK will provide optimal performance on all supported plat-
 forms. LAPACK should be used in place of LINPACK and EISPACK, since
 it is more efficient, accurate, and robust than those older packages.

                                  6

 

 LAPACK supports both real and complex, single and double precision data.
 It operates on the following types of matrices:

 o  Bidiagonal

 o  General band

 o  General unsymmetric

 o  General tridiagonal

 o  Hermitian

 o  Hermitian, packed storage

 o  Upper Hessenberg, generalized problem

 o  Upper Hessenberg

 o  Orthogonal

 o  Orthogonal, packed storage

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian positive definite band

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian positive definite

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian positive definite, packed storage

 o  Symmetric/Hermitian positive definite tridiagonal

 o  Symmetric band

 o  Symmetric, packed storage

 o  Symmetric tridiagonal

 o  Symmetric

 o  Triangular band

 o  Triangular, generalized problem

 o  Triangular, packed storage

 o  Triangular

 o  Trapezoidal

 o  Unitary

                                  7

 

 o  Unitary, packed storage

 LAPACK provides the following operations:

 o  Triangular factorization

 o  Unblocked triangular factorization

 o  Solve a system of linear equations (based on triangular factoriza-
    tion)

 o  Compute the inverse (based on triangular factorization)

 o  Unblocked computation of inverse

 o  Estimate condition number

 o  Refine initial solution returned by solver

 o  Perform QR factorization without pivoting

 o  Unblocked QR factorization

 o  Solve linear least squares problem (based on QR factorization)

 o  Perform LQ factorization without pivoting

 o  Unblocked LQ factorization

 o  Solve underdetermined linear system (based on LQ factorization)

 o  Generate a real orthogonal or complex unitary matrix as a product
    of Householder matrices

 o  Unblocked generate of real orthogonal or unitary matrix

 o  Multiply a matrix by a real orthogonal or complex unitary matrix
    by applying a product of Householder matrices

 o  Unblocked version of above multiply

 o  Reduce a square matrix to upper Hessenberg form

 o  Unblocked version of square matrix reduction

 o  Reduce a symmetric matrix to real symmetric tridiagonal form

 o  Unblocked version of symmetric matrix reduction

                                  8

 

 o  Reduce a rectangular matrix to bidiagonal form

 o  Compute eigenvalues and optional Schur factorization or eigenvec-
    tors using QR algorithm

 o  Compute selected eigenvectors by inverse iteration

 o  Compute eigenvectors from Schur factorization

 o  Compute eigenvectors using the Pal-Walker-Kahan variant of the QL
    or QR algorithm

 o  Compute singular values and, optionally, singular vectors using the
    QR algorithm

 Sparse System Solver Library Contents

 The DXML Sparse System Solver Library contains a set of subroutines
 that may be used to solve sparse linear systems of equations. The li-
 brary contains a set of storage methods, preconditioners, and iter-
 ative solvers.

 Routines for three storage methods are provided, or the user may de-
 velop routines to employ a custom storage scheme. The supplied stor-
 age schemes include:

 o  Symmetric diagonal

 o  Unsymmetric diagonal

 o  General storage by rows

 Three preconditioners are supplied, which can be selectively applied
 to the data. Users may also supply custom preconditioners. The pre-
 conditioners supplied include:

 o  Diagonal

 o  Polynomial (Neumann)

 o  Incomplete LU with zero diagonals added

                                  9

 

 Five iterative sparse solvers for real, double precision data are sup-
 plied:

 o  Preconditioned conjugate gradient method

 o  Preconditioned least squares conjugate gradient method

 o  Preconditioned bi-conjugate method

 o  Preconditioned conjugate gradient squared method

 o  Preconditioned generalized minimum residual method

 Signal Processing Library Contents

 The DXML Signal Processing Library contains a set of subroutines in
 three basic areas of signal processing:

 o  Fast Fourier Transforms

 o  Convolution and Correlation

 o  Digital Filters

 Fast Fourier Transforms (FFTs)

 DXML provides one-dimensional, two-dimensional, three-dimensional, and
 group FFT routines. Each routine is supplied in two forms:

 o  The first form computes the transform in one unit operation. This
    is convenient for programs requiring speed on only one or a few FFT
    operations.

 o  The second form is provided for programs requiring speed on repeated
    FFT operations. With this form, each routine is subdivided into three
    routines. One routine builds the rotation factors, a second rou-
    tine applies them to the data to perform the FFT, and a third rou-
    tine deallocates any virtual memory allocated in the first routine.
    Thus, for repeated operations, the rotation factors need to be built
    only once.

 Convolution and Correlation

                                 10

 

 DXML provides routines for computing one-dimensional discrete convo-
 lutions and correlations. These routines can process both periodic and
 nonperiodic data.

 Digital Filters

 DXML provides support for one-dimensional, nonrecursive digital fil-
 tering. Based on the Kaisers Sinh-Bessel algorithm, these routines al-
 low programming of bandpass, bandstop, low-pass, and high-pass fil-
 ters.

 DXML Run-Time Only License

 The Digital Extended Math Library is an application development tool
 that provides convenience and improved performance to the developer.
 To encourage application developers to incorporate DXML routines into
 their applications for distribution to other users, Digital provides
 a DXML Run-Time Only license to allow running applications that call
 DXML routines. This license is offered at a substantially reduced price.
 The DXML Run-Time License does not allow new applications to be de-
 veloped, but does allow applications developed on another system with
 the Development License to be run.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 31.67.01-x)

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 OpenVMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running VWS:

 OpenVMS Operating System

 OpenVMS Workstation Software

                                 11

 

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.67.01-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Development Option

 Software Licenses: QL-YEZ99-J*
 Software Media: QA-YEZAA-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YEZAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YEZA*-**

 Run-Time Option

 Software Licenses: QL-MUS99-J*
 Software Media: QA-MUSAA-**
 Software Product Services: QT-MUSA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity. License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited Use
 Basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
 tem documentation set.


                                 12

 

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available. For more information, please
 contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum.
 
 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECwindows, Digital, MicroVAX, Open-
    VMS, TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.






















                                 13
