 






          Hewlett-Packard


          Read Before Installing hp DECforms for OpenVMS Systems, Version
          3.3

          Whether you are a new or existing HP DECforms customer, please
          take time to read the following information about your product.

          Installation Information

          Installing HP DECforms Version 3.3 requires the HP OpenVMS
          Alpha, Version 6.2, 7.3 or 7.3-1 or OpenVMS VAX V6.2 or 7.3.
          To install DECforms, use the VMSINSTAL command and follow the
          directions in the Compaq DECforms Installation Guide for OpenVMS
          Systems. The installation procedure will perform a complete
          replacement installation.

          Release Notes Information

          The release notes for DECforms Version 3.3 contain a summary of
          new features, known problems, restrictions, incompatibilities,
          and installation-related instructions. To read the release
          notes before installing DECforms, invoke VMSINSTAL and follow
          the instructions in the installation guide. After installing
          DECforms, you can find the release notes for DECforms located
          in:

             SYS$HELP:FORMSA033.RELEASE_NOTES (OpenVMS Alpha)
             SYS$HELP:FORMS033.RELEASE_NOTES (OpenVMS VAX)

          HP DECforms Web Connector

          There is an optional component of DECforms, the HP DECforms
          Web Connector, that allows you to enable DECforms applications
          to work on the World Wide Web without making significant pro-
          gramming changes; in most cases, no programming changes are
          required. To find out more information about the DECforms Web
          Connector, go to the DECforms Web Connector site at the follow-
          ing URL:

             http://www.openvms.compaq.com/commercial/webconnector/

          Product Compatibility

          For information on the compatibility of other software products
          with this version of DECforms, refer to the Software Product
          Description (SPD). You can use the SPD to verify which versions
          of your operating system are compatible with this version of
          DECforms.

          License Management Facility Information

          Before you can install DECforms Version 3.3, you must register
          the Product Authorization Key (PAK), using the License Manage-
          ment Facility (LMF). See the OpenVMS License Management Utility
          Manual for registration instructions.

 






          hp DECforms Documentation

          If you have ordered a printed documentation kit, you will re-
          ceive the following manuals:

             Compaq DECforms Guide to the Web Connector
             DIGITAL DECforms Guide to Developing an Application
             DIGITAL DECforms Guide to Commands and Utilities
             DIGITAL DECforms IFDL Reference Manual
             DIGITAL DECforms Programmer's Reference Manual
             DIGITAL DECforms Guide to Developing an Application
             DIGITAL DECforms Style Guide for Character-Cell Devices
             DIGITAL DECforms Guide to Converting FMS Applications
             Compaq DECforms Installation Guide for OpenVMS Systems

          For More Information

          For more information on DECforms, and updates on new features,
          visit our web site at the following URL:

             http://www.openvms.compaq.com/commercial/decforms/

          Your Feedback is Appreciated

          HP appreciates your comments about DECforms and its documen-
          tation. If you find errors or want to make comments about a
          manual, please send Internet mail containing the manual's title,
          part number, and a description of the documentation error to:

             openvmsdoc@hp.com

          Please do not use this electronic mail account for reporting
          problems with DECforms software. Instead, use the appropriate
          channels to report such problems.

                   © 2003 Hewlett-Packard Development Corporation



















                                          2
