 






          COMPAQ

          AV-R83RH-TE

          September 2002


          Dear Advanced Server and PATHWORKS customers,

          The enclosed kits contain two products:

          o  Compaq PATHWORKS V6.1 for OpenVMS (Advanced Server)

             This OpenVMS layered application provides networking func-
             tionally equivalent to that of the Windows NT Server - with
             additional features.

             PATHWORKS V6.1 for OpenVMS (Advanced Server) supports OpenVMS
             Alpha Versions 6.2, 7.2-2, 7.3 and 7.3-1 and OpenVMS VAX Ver-
             sions 6.2, 7.2, and 7.3. Licenses are purchased separately.

          o  Compaq Advanced Server V7.3A for OpenVMS

             This OpenVMS layered application provides networking func-
             tionally equivalent to that of the Windows NT Server - with
             capabilities that support OpenVMS Version 7.3-1. The product
             includes several other new features that enhance integration
             with Microsoft and OpenVMS environments.

             Advanced Server V7.3A for OpenVMS supports only OpenVMS
             Alpha Versions 7.2-2, 7.3, and 7.3-1. You can upgrade from
             Advanced Server V7.3 for OpenVMS to Advanced Server V7.3A
             for OpenVMS before you upgrade your operating system to
             OpenVMS Version 7.3-1. Or, you can stay on OpenVMS Alpha
             Version 7.3. Upgrading to Advanced Server V7.3A will give you
             the most recent maintenance updates. Licenses are purchased
             separately.

          Installation

          See the Server Installation and Configuration Guide for your
          product for instructions on how to install the software; read
          the on-line release notes for other important notices.

          Licensing Information

          You must use the Client Access license with PATHWORKS for Open-
          VMS (Advanced Server) and Advanced Server for OpenVMS soft-
          ware. The order numbers for the Client Access licenses are
          QM-5SUAA-A*. Upgrades are available for those with licenses
          for prior versions of PATHWORKS Advanced Server software.

          Note: Some new OpenVMS Alpha servers include two new Client
          Access licenses to let you start using Advanced Server for
          OpenVMS or PATHWORKS for OpenVMS (Advanced Server) software
          immediately.

 






          For More Information

          If you have any questions regarding Advanced Server for OpenVMS
          or PATHWORKS for OpenVMS (Advanced Server) software, please
          visit our InfoCenter or newsgroup or send e-mail:

          InfoCenter:   http://www.compaq.com/openvms/

          Newsgroup:    news:vmsnet.networks.desktop.pathworks

          e-mail:       pwinfo@compaq.com

          Thank you for choosing Advanced Server for OpenVMS or PATHWORKS
          for OpenVMS (Advanced Server) software as your networking solu-
          tion. As always, we welcome your feedback.

          © 2002 Compaq Information Technologies Group, L.P.

          Compaq, the Compaq logo, Alpha, OpenVMS, Tru64, DECnet, VAX,
          VMS, and the DIGITAL logo are trademarks of Compaq Information
          Technologies Group, L.P. in the U.S. and/or other countries.

          Microsoft, MS-DOS, Windows, and Windows NT are trademarks of
          Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.
          Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or
          other countries.
          UNIX is a trademark of The Open Group in the U.S. and/or other
          countries.

          All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks or
          registered trademarks of their respective companies.

          Confidential commercial computer software. Valid license re-
          quired.





















                                          2
