




       COMPAQ

       Read Before Installing or Using Compaq Fortran 77
       Version 6.6 for OpenVMS VAX Systems

       AV-PUYSG-TE

       Product Information

       Compaq[R] Fortran 77 (formerly DEC[R] Fortran[TM] or Digital
       Fortran) Version 6.6 for OpenVMS[TM] VAX[R] Systems replaces
       Version 6.5 and provides the following features:

       o  Full upward compatibility with previous versions of Digital
          Fortran 77 for OpenVMS VAX Systems, VAX FORTRAN[TM], and
          VAX FORTRAN HPO.

       o  A high level of compatibility with Compaq Fortran 77 (for-
          merly DIGITAL[R] Fortran 77 or DEC Fortran) products on other
          architectures and operating systems (platforms).

       o  Corrections to problems discovered since Version 6.5 was released.

       For more product information about Compaq Fortran 77, see the
       online release notes.

       License Management Facility Information

       Compaq Fortran 77 Version 6.6 uses the same license management
       facility (LMF) product authorization key (PAK) product name
       (FORTRAN, FORTRAN-G, or FORTRAN-USER) as Digital Fortran Version
       6.4 and 6.5 for OpenVMS VAX Systems and VAX FORTRAN. Before you
       can install Compaq Fortran 77, an LMF PAK must be registered and
       loaded (see the installation guide, Digital Fortran Installation
       Guide for OpenVMS VAX Systems).

       Release Notes Information

       The release notes are installed in the SYS$HELP: directory in the
       form of ASCII text, PostScript[R] and Bookreader[TM] formatted
       files. The release notes for Compaq Fortran 77 Version 6.6 contain
       installation-related instructions and a summary of the following:

       o  Changes made since Digital Fortran Version 6.5, as well as
          differences from VAX FORTRAN

       o  Restrictions, known problems, corrected errors, and any
          incompatibilities

       o  Performance enhancements and documentation information

       To read the release notes before installing Compaq Fortran 77,
       follow the instructions in the installation guide. To locate
       the release notes after installing Compaq Fortran 77, type the
       following:

          $ HELP FORTRAN RELEASE_NOTES <Return>

      © Copyright Digital Equipment Corporation. 1999. All Rights Reserved.






       Installation Information

       Installing this product requires OpenVMS VAX (VAX VMS) Version
       5.4 or higher.

       The full kit for Compaq Fortran 77 Version 6.6 requires 16,000
       blocks of free disk space during installation and 11,000 blocks
       after installation completes.

       For systems running OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 or later, an alter-
       nate form of the Compaq Fortran 77 kit is provided for installa-
       tion by the POLYCENTER[TM] Software Installation (PCSI) utility
       (PRODUCT command). PCSI software is bundled with the OpenVMS
       operating system, Version 6.1 or later.

       The traditional Compaq Fortran 77 kit installed by using VMSINSTAL
       is also provided. To get Help during VMSINSTAL installation, type
       a question mark (?)  and press Return in reply to a prompt.

       The compiler, command line, and help text are identical between
       the PCSI and VMSINSTAL versions of the kit.

       The advantages of using PCSI include:

       o  Shorter installation time

       o  Tracking what software version(s) are installed on the system

       o  Product removal by means of the PRODUCT REMOVE command

       For information about installing Compaq Fortran 77 on your VAX
       system using VMSINSTAL or PCSI, see the installation guide.

       Contents of This Kit

       o  Bill of Materials (BOM) and Indented Bill Report (BIL)

          Please read the BOM and BIL enclosed in this kit and check
          that all of the items listed are in your kit. If your kit is
          damaged or items are missing, call your Compaq representa-
          tive.

       o  Media and Online Documentation Files

          If you ordered media, you will find the media in this kit.
          Consult the installation guide for information about in-
          stalling Compaq Fortran 77 on your VAX system.

          The software library media CD-ROM (CD) set includes the
          Compaq Fortran 77 VMSINSTAL installation save set, PCSI
          installation product distribution files, and installation-
          related online documentation files.

          An online Software Product Library CD-ROM User's Guide (media
          CD user's guide) and a printed CD "read first" letter accom-
          pany the media CD set. The media CD user's guide describes
          the CDMENU utility and media CD online files.

                                      2

 





       Contents of This Kit (Cont'd)

          To locate the correct media CD that contains the Compaq
          Fortran 77 directories and the names of the Compaq Fortran 77
          directories, see the online media CD user's guide or the CD
          master index file. The media CD user's guide and CD master
          index are provided as online files in the [README] directory
          of the first media CD.

          The tape media includes the Compaq Fortran 77 save set and
          the online documentation files. To copy the files from the
          tape, see the section "Copying Documentation Files from the
          Media" later in this letter.

          Online documentation files provided include the Compaq For-
          tran 77 installation guide, this "read first" letter, and
          the Software Product Description (SPD). These documents are
          provided in PostScript form (file type .PS) and ASCII form
          (file type .TXT).

       o  Documentation

          Depending on your order, this kit may include the following
          printed Compaq Fortran 77 manuals:

          -  DEC Fortran Language Reference Manual (AA-PU45B-TK)

          -  DEC Fortran User Manual for OpenVMS VAX Systems (AA-PUYPA-TE)

          -  DEC Fortran Performance Guide for OpenVMS VAX Systems
             (AA-PUYQA-TE)

          -  Digital Fortran Installation Guide for OpenVMS VAX Systems
             (AA-PUYRB-TE)

          Documentation is always included for new customers. For
          customers with a service update contract, documentation is
          included if it has been revised since the prior release of
          Compaq Fortran 77. This "read first" letter has been revised
          for Version 6.6. The Digital Fortran Installation Guide for
          OpenVMS VAX Systems was revised for Version 6.4 and the DEC
          Fortran Language Reference Manual was revised for Version
          6.3. Other documents were last revised for Version 6.0.

          You can order the complete printed documentation set (order
          number QA-100AA-GZ). Compaq Fortran 77 documentation is provided
          in Bookreader or HTML format on the OpenVMS VAX Layered Products
          Online Documentation CD.

       Software Product Description (SPD)

       The SPD provides an overview of Compaq Fortran 77 features and
       the technical environment in which the product is supported. It
       is provided as a documentation file on the media.


                                       3





       Copying Documentation Files from Tape Media

       The following documentation files on tape media are provided in
       ASCII form (file type .TXT):

       o  The Compaq Fortran 77 installation guide, file name FORT066_
          IGUIDE

       o  This "read first" letter, file name FORT066_COVER

       o  The Compaq Fortran 77 SPD, file name FORT066_SPD

       For example, you might use the following commands to copy the
       Compaq Fortran 77 SPD from the Compaq Fortran media tape physi-
       cally loaded on drive MUA0:

          $  MOUNT MUA0: FORT
          $  COPY/LOG MUA0:FORT066_SPD.TXT *.*
 

       Compaq Fortran Home Page

       The Compaq Fortran home page provides information about Com-
       paq Fortran products. You can access this page by using a Web
       browser to open the following Internet URL:

           http://www.compaq.com/fortran/


       Compaq Services

       A variety of service and support options are available from Compaq.
       For more information, contact your local Compaq sales office.


       A Final Note

       Compaq appreciates your comments. If you have comments about
       a manual, please send Internet e-mail containing the manual's
       title, order number, section number, and problem description to:

           fortran@compaq.com







    ___________________
     [R] Compaq, the COMPAQ logo, DEC, DIGITAL, and VAX are registered
         in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

    [TM] Bookreader, DEC Fortran, OpenVMS, POLYCENTER, and VAX FORTRAN are
         trademarks of Compaq Computer Corporation

     [R] PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

         Other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their
         respective companies.

                                       4
