 






           DIGITAL


           VAX Message Router, Version 3.5

           Cover Letter

           AV-Q2ELC-TE

           This Cover Letter lists the New Features that have been introduced
           in Version 3.5 of the Message Router.

           It also describes how to install and upgrade Version 3.5 of the
           Message Router. Details of these changes are given in the Release
           Notes and the Installation Guide.

           New Features

           o  VAX Message Router V3.5 is Year 2000 Ready. It will be unaf-
              fected by the rollover caused by the turn of the century.

           o  The following address for Reader's comments as documented in
              the books is no longer relevant:

              -  Internet : migbooks@reo.mts.dec.com

              -  X.400 : S=migbooks; O=digital; OU1=reo; P=digital; A=gold
                 400; C=gb

              Any comments on documentation should be directed to the local
              customer support centres or if the readers have some comments
              to send they should use the prepaid readers' comments forms, if
              they are supplied at the back of the book. In all cases, please
              include the part number of the appropriate guide when providing
              comments.

           o  This version of Message Router V3.5 follows V3.3A. Please note
              that there is no Version 3.4 available.

           o  The MBMAN utility has been enhanced to include commands to
              summarize subscriber entries in DDS, and to select and update
              multiple subscriber entries. See VAX Message Router MBMAN Util-
              ity V3.5 and the on-line Help for MBMAN for more details about
              the enhanced MBMAN utility.

           Installing Message Router V3.5

           With the exception of the VMSINSTAL command (shown below) to in-
           stall Message Router V3.5, the installation procedure is the same
           as for Message Router V3.3. Refer to the VAX Message Router In-
           stallation Guide for details of the installation procedure.

           Use the following command to install Message Router V3.5:

              @SYS$UPDATE:VMSINSTAL MR035 device OPTIONS N

           where device is the name of the device where the distribution
           medium is to be mounted.

 






           Upgrading to Message Router V3.5

           Customers who have Message Router V3.2 or later can upgrade to
           V3.5 directly. Customers who have earlier versions will need to
           upgrade to V3.2 first, and then upgrade to V3.5.

           In addition, after upgrading to V3.2 you must run the system for a
           sufficiently long period to deliver all messages that were queued
           prior to the V3.2 upgrade. The mailbox queue records for versions
           of Message Router prior to V3.2 are incompatible with V3.5, and
           any queued messages from the pre-V3.2 version must be cleared
           prior to performing the final V3.5 upgrade.

           Message Router V3.5 will properly handle messages previously
           queued by V3.2 and later releases. The above precaution would
           apply, for example, if you were upgrading from V3.1. In this case
           any messages that were in the Message Router mailboxes prior to
           the V3.2 upgrade must be delivered (or deleted) before proceeding
           to the V3.5 upgrade.





































                                            2

 






           Digital Equipment Corporation makes no representations that the
           use of its products in the manner described in this publication
           will not infringe on existing or future patent rights, nor do the
           descriptions contained in this publication imply the granting of
           licenses to make, use, or sell equipment or software in accordance
           with the description.

           Possession, use, or copying of the software described in this
           publication is authorized only pursuant to a valid written license
           from Digital or an authorized sublicensor.

           The following are trademarks of the Digital Equipment Corporation:
           AXP, Digital, Message Router, OpenVMS, VAX.








































                ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1998. All rights reserved.


                                            3
