 






           DIGITAL


           VAX Message Router X.400 Gateway, Version 3.5

           Cover Letter

           AV-MR45E-TE

           This Cover Letter lists the New features that have been introduced
           in Version 3.5 of the Message Router X.400 Gateway.

           It also describes how to install Version 3.5 of the Message Router
           X.400 Gateway. Details of these changes are given in the Release
           Notes and the Installation Guide.

           New Features

           o  Message Router X.400 Gateway V3.5 is Year 2000 Ready. It will
              be unaffected by the rollover caused by the turn of the cen-
              tury.

           o  The following address for Reader's comments as documented in
              the books is no longer relevant:

              -  Internet : migbooks@reo.mts.dec.com

              -  X.400 : S=migbooks; O=digital; OU1=reo; P=digital; A=gold
                 400; C=gb

              Any comments on documentation should be directed to the local
              customer support centres or if the readers have some comments
              to send they should use the prepaid readers' comments forms, if
              they are supplied at the back of the book. In all cases, please
              include the part number of the appropriate guide when providing
              comments.

           o  This version of the Message Router X.400 Gateway V3.5 follows
              V2.3. Please note that there is no interim version available.

           Installing MRX

           With the exception of the VMSINSTAL command (shown below) to in-
           stall MRX V3.5, the installation procedure is the same as for MRX
           V2.3. Refer to the VAX Message Router X.400 Gateway Installation
           Guide for details of the installation procedure.

           The command to install MRX V3.5 is:

              @SYS$UPDATE:VMSINSTAL MRX035 device OPTIONS N

           where device is the name of the device where the distribution
           medium is to be mounted.

 






           Digital Equipment Corporation makes no representations that the
           use of its products in the manner described in this publication
           will not infringe on existing or future patent rights, nor do the
           descriptions contained in this publication imply the granting of
           licenses to make, use, or sell equipment or software in accordance
           with the description.

           Possession, use, or copying of the software described in this
           publication is authorized only pursuant to a valid written license
           from Digital or an authorized sublicensor.











































                ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1998. All rights reserved.


                                            2
