 


                              Compaq

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  Compaq Notes Version 2.5 for OpenVMS VAX Systems SPD
27.06.11

DESCRIPTION

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX Systems is a computer conferencing soft-
ware product designed to provide users with the capability of creat-
ing and accessing enterprise-wide, online conferences or meetings. Com-
puter conferencing is a proven, computer supported, electronic mes-
saging technology that lets users participate in open discussions with
people in different locations and at different times. Compaq Notes for
OpenVMS VAX helps save travel time and money because participants can
join in a discussion from their own desks at a time of their own choice.

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX can be used for a variety of applications
such as an electronic bulletin board, collaborative document author-
ing and review, and internal classes or seminars. One major advantage
of Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX is that the conference maintains a de-
tailed record of the proceedings of a discussion. These records can
later be searched by a variety of criteria, such as name of partic-
ipant, subject, or keyword. Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX eliminates
reinvention of the wheel by providing a mechanism for sharing expert
knowledge across the enterprise. In general, Compaq Notes for Open-
VMS VAX enhances the communication flow across the corporate hierar-
chy.

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX is implemented as a client/server appli-
cation. The Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX clients can run in one of two
ways. Users can be on either the DECwindows platform with easy access
to functions through direct manipulation with a mouse in a window, or
the character cell terminal using a TPU interface. Compaq Notes for

                                                          July 1999

 

OpenVMS VAX servers run on OpenVMS VAX systems in either a standalone
or networked environment.

The Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX Full-function option allows the use
of all the features described below. The one exception is the Personal
Use license that allows all the features below except for access from
remote clients. The Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX Client option allows
all of the features described below with the exception of creation of
conferences. The Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX for TeamLinks option al-
lows Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX server features to be accessed by
TeamLinks PC Clients.

Features

Distributed Access

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX has been designed for optimal multinode
access in a DECnet or TCP/IP network, using server technology to achieve
rapid response - even from distant nodes. Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX
conferences can exist on any Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX server node
in a DECnet or TCP/IP network and can be accessed from any Compaq Notes
for OpenVMS VAX client, Compaq Notes for OpenVMS AXP Client, Confer-
encing for Windows client or Conferencing for Macintosh client in a
DECnet or TCP /IP network, thus offering true distributed processing
capability. Users on remote nodes need not have an account on the node
where the conference is located in order to participate in a discus-
sion. Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX can also be used on any single node
OpenVMS VAX configuration. Conferences can exist on any node where the
full-function server is installed in either standalone or networked
environments.

Moderator Support

A moderator is a person responsible for managing a conference. Com-
paq Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows both public and private conferences.
For private conferences, the moderator can restrict access to a spe-
cific group of participants by specifying name and network location.
Public conferences have no restrictions on who may participate. Mod-
erators can send announcements of new conferences to participants, and

                                 2

 

have the ability to delete notes entered by other participants. Mod-
erators can also create special notices that are displayed for all par-
ticipants each time the conference is accessed.

Ease of Use

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX is designed with the inexperienced user
in mind. All functions can be accessed by easy-to-use commands, sup-
ported with on-line, context-sensitive help. Documentation is designed
to familiarize new users with Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX quickly and
easily.

Choice of Editor Interfaces

The character-cell interface to Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX provides
three separate screen-oriented user interfaces for editing, allowing
users to specify use of EVE (an extensible interface), EDT-style key-
pad interface, or WPS-style GOLD KEY keypad interface on ANSI-compatible
terminals.

A line mode editor also is included in Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX
for use on non-ANSI terminal devices.

Users of the DECwindows interface can enter notes that contain graph-
ics and text by including entire compound documents based on DDIF file
format.

Topics and Replies

The structure of a Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX conference is simply
a topic followed by replies to that topic, so there is no difficult
hierarchy to navigate. A conference may have more than 50,000 topics,
and each topic may have a similar number of replies. Directory list-
ings show all topics by author, title, date, and the number of replies
posted to each topic. All notes can be read either sequentially or at
random. Also, users have the option of reading only those notes that
they have not yet seen. Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows the user
to search for various topics and replies using the SEARCH, DIRECTORY,
and KEYWORD commands.

                                 3

 

The DECwindows interface to Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows users
to open multiple read windows per conference, as well as have multi-
ple conferences open at one time.

Notebook

The Notebook is a user's personal list of conferences of interest. Users
can easily add or delete conferences from their Notebook. The Note-
book allows users to define personal names for conferences and, in a
distributed environment, allows remote conferences to be accessed with-
out DECnet or TCP/IP node specifications. When a conference is accessed,
the Notebook determines whether or not new notes have been made since
the last time the user accessed the conference. The Notebook maintains
an estimated count of these unseen notes. The Notebook also maintains
a profile of user preferences, including personal name, editor choice,
and default printer specification.

Markers

Markers are user-defined names pointing to relevant notes in a con-
ference. Markers can be used whenever a user needs to have a special
reminder of things to do, or to recall notes that are frequently ref-
erenced.

Keywords

Keywords allow the user to group notes that are concerned with a par-
ticular subject or do not have other attributes (such as title, au-
thor, or time of entry) in common. Keywords are useful for grouping
notes that may not have the keyword in the note text or title, but that
do address the subject the keyword represents.

Imported Text

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows notes and replies to be created
outside of Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX (using any editor that can pro-
duce ASCII output files) and then later imported to the conference.

Mail Integration

                                 4

 

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX uses the OpenVMS VAX mail facility (in-
cluded in the OpenVMS VAX Operating System) to allow users to send notes
or messages to other users from within Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX.

DEClinks - formerly LinkWorks

DEClinks allows the user to create links between notes in a Compaq Notes
for OpenVMS VAX conference as well as links between notes and other
applications that support DEClinks, such as the OpenVMS VAX mail fa-
cility. DEClinks is useful in establishing links between elements in
different databases and also allows easy navigation along the paths
established by the links. For more information regarding DEClinks, please
refer to the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Descrip-
tion (SPD 36.09.xx).

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Processors Supported

Any VAX system that is capable of running OpenVMS VAX Version 5.4 -
7.1.

Processor Restrictions

A TK50 tape drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and VAXs-
tation 2000 systems.

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1)

Disk space required for      9,000 blocks
installation:
                             (4.4 Mbytes)

Disk space required for      5,500 blocks
permanent use:
                             (2.7 Mbytes)

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
system environment, configuration, and software options.

                                 5

 

Memory Requirements for DECwindows Support

The minimum supported memory for this application running in a stan-
dalone DECwindows environment with both the client and server execut-
ing on the same system is 12 MB.

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
and licensed OpenVMS Cluster* configuration without restrictions. The
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section of this product's Software Product De-
scription details any special hardware required by this product.

*  OpenVMS Cluster configurations are fully described in the OpenVMS
   Cluster Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
   ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX supports screen-oriented editing only on
terminals that respond to ANSI control functions and that operate in
ANSI mode. Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX screen-oriented editing is de-
signed to optimize the features of the VT200 and VT100 families of ter-
minals.

Line mode editing is provided for non-ANSI terminals supported by the
OpenVMS VAX Operating System.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

This product has been tested on the following versions of OpenVMS:
For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System Versions 5.4-7.1

For Workstations Running DECwindows:

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System Versions 5.4-7.1


                                 6

 

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Version 1.0 or higher

This product can run in either of the following ways:

o  Standalone execution - running the X11 display server and client
   application on the same machine

o  Remote execution - running the X11 display server and the client
   application on different machines

Installation of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX gives the user the
option to install any or all of the following three components:

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Compute Server

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Device Support

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Programming Support

For standalone execution, the following DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
VAX components must be installed on the machine:

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Compute Server

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Device Support

For remote execution, the following DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX
components must be installed on the machines:

Server Machine

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Compute Server

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Device support

Client Machine

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Compute Server

For more information on DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX, refer to the
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Description (SPD 36.09.xx).

                                 7

 

OpenVMS Tailoring

For OpenVMS Version 5.x systems, the following OpenVMS classes are re-
quired for full functionality of this layered product:

o  OpenVMS VAX Required Saveset

o  Network Support

o  Secure User's Environment

o  Utilities

For more information on OpenVMS VAX classes and tailoring, refer to
the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

Storage space requirements increase as more topics and replies are added
to the conference; sufficient disk space must be allocated to allow
these files to grow as needed.

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements of the current ver-
sion.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

Nine-track Magtape, TK50 Streaming Tape

The software binaries and documentation are also available on vari-
ous CD-ROM distributions:

o  OpenVMS VAX Software Layered Products Library-This offering includes
   the OpenVMS VAX Layered Product software binaries. (QA-5FW8A-A8)

o  OpenVMS VAX Online Documentation Library-This offering includes the
   documentation for the OpenVMS VAX Layered Products.


                                 8

 

YEAR 2000 READY

This product is Year 2000 Ready when run on a Year 2000 compliant ver-
sion of the operating system.

"Year 2000 Ready" products are defined by Compaq as products capable
of accurately processing, providing, and/or receiving date data from,
into and between the twentieth and the twenty-first centuries, and the
years 1999 and 2000, including leap year calculations, when used in
accordance with the associated product documentation and provided that
all hardware, firmware and software used in combination with such prod-
ucts properly exchange accurate date data with the products.

For additional information visit the DIGITAL Brand area on Compaq's
Year 2000 Ready web site located at
http://www.compaq.com/year2000/warranties3.html.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

This software is provided by Compaq with a 90 day conformance warranty
in accordance with the Compaq warranty terms applicable to the license
purchase.

The warranty period is 90 days. It begins when the software is installed
or thirty days after delivery to the end user, whichever occurs first,
and expires 90 days later. All warranty related support for this soft-
ware will end one year after release of the subsequent versions.

Warranty is provided in the country of purchase. Compaq will provide
a service location that will accept reporting (in format prescribed
by Compaq) of a nonconformance problem caused when using the licensed
software under normal conditions as defined by this SPD. Compaq will
remedy a nonconformance problem in the current unaltered release of
the licensed software by issuing correction information such as: cor-
rection documentation, corrected code; or a notice of availability of
corrected code; or a restriction or a bypass. The customer will be re-
sponsible for the preparation and submission of the problem report to
the service location.


                                 9

 

WARRANTY EXCLUSION

Compaq does not warrant that the software licensed to customer shall
be error free, that the software shall operate with any hardware and
software other than as specified in this SPD, that the software shall
satisfy customer's own specific requirements, or that copies of the
software other than those provided or authorized by Compaq shall con-
form to the SPD.

Compaq makes no warranties with respect to the fitness and operabil-
ity of modifications not made by Compaq.

If the software fails to function for reasons stated above, the cus-
tomer's warranty will be invalidated and all service calls will be bil-
lable at the prevailing per call rates.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX - Full-function

   Software Licenses: QL-960A*-**
   Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
   Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
   Software Product Services: QT-960A*-**

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX - Client Only

   Software Licenses: QL-VESA*-**
   Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
   Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
   Software Product Services: QT-VESA*-**

Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX for TeamLinks

   Software Licenses: QL-006AA-2B
   Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
   Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
   Software Product Services: QT-006A*-**


                                10

 

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
   censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Compaq
Computer Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more infor-
mation about Compaq's licensing terms and policies, contact your lo-
cal Compaq office.

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the License Management Facility for Open-
VMS VAX.

License units for Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX Full-function option
are allocated on an Unlimited System Use, Concurrent Use, and Personal
Use basis. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at
a time to use the layered product. The Personal Use license allows all
functions except access by a remote client.

License units for Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX Client option are al-
located on an Unlimited System Use, Concurrent Use, and Personal Use
basis. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time
to use the layered product. Each Personal Use license allows one iden-
tified individual to use the layered product.

License units for Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX for TeamLinks option
are allocated on a Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use license al-
lows one identified TeamLinks node to access Compaq Notes for Open-
VMS VAX server features. A separate Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX Full-
function license is not required when using this option.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
ing System documentation set.



                                11

 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

Mature Product Support with Sustaining Engineering is offered for Com-
paq Notes for OpenVMS VAX that is equivalent to current version sup-
port and includes telephone support, tested software patches for any
new problems, and availability of engineering-level resources for prob-
lem escalation. However, Compaq will not be adding new features or func-
tionality to Compaq Notes for OpenVMS VAX and no new versions of the
product are planned. Accordingly, License Subscription and Software
Update Distribution Services will no longer be available. Please con-
tact your local Compaq Services Sales Specialist for more information
about Mature Product Support with Sustaining Engineering for Compaq
Notes for OpenVMS VAX.

A variety of service options are available from Compaq. For more in-
formation, contact your local Compaq office.

The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
local Compaq office for the most up-to-date information.

     Compaq, the Compaq logo, and the DIGITAL logo are registered
     in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

     All-in-1, CI, DDIF, DEC, DEClinks, DECnet, DECspell, DIGITAL,
     EDT, GOLD KEY, LinkWorks, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, TeamLinks, TK,
     VAX, VAXstation, VT100, and WPS are trademarks of Compaq
     Computer Corporation.

     Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

     Motif is a registered trademark of The Open Group.

     Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

©Digital Equipment Corporation 1993, 1999.
All rights reserved.




                                12
