 






          DIGITAL


          Read Before Installing or Using DEC Notes Version 2.5

          AV-PL4CE-TE

          Whether you are a new or a continuing DEC Notes customer, please
          take time to read the following information about your product.

          Installation Information

          DEC Notes Version 2.5 with the DECwindows interface requires
          VMS[TM] Version 5.4 or higher and VMS DECwindows[TM] Motif[R]
          Version 1.0 or higher. The character-cell interface requires VMS
          Version 5.4 or higher.

          Previous versions of DEC Notes do not need to be installed
          before you install this version.

          TeamLinks[TM] Information

          The format of the TeamLinks license reserve list has changed.
          System managers should read the Release Notes for detailed
          information on these important changes.

          Release Notes Information

          The release notes for DEC Notes Version 2.5 contain important
          installation-related instructions and a summary of new function-
          ality, problems fixed, and known problems.

          You can read the release notes before installing DEC Notes
          Version 2.5 by invoking VMSINSTAL and following the instructions
          in the DEC Notes Installation Guide. You can locate the release
          notes after installing DEC Notes Version 2.5 by typing the
          following command at the DCL level ($):

               $ HELP NOTES RELEASE_NOTES

          Contents of This Kit

          o  Indented Bill Report (BIL) and Bill of Materials (BOM)

             Please read the BIL and BOM enclosed in this kit and check to
             see that all items listed are actually in your kit. If your
             kit is damaged or any items are missing, call your Digital
             representative.

          o  Media

             If you ordered media, you will find the media in this kit.
             Consult the DEC Notes Installation Guide for information
             about installing DEC Notes on your system.

          o  Documentation

 






             Depending on your order, this kit may include copies of the
             following DEC Notes
             documentation:

                Guide to DEC Notes
                DEC Notes Command Dictionary
                DEC Notes Quick Reference Card
                DEC Notes Installation Guide






















              ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1993. All Rights Reserved.
























                                          2

 






                                           NOTE

                For update customers, the only hardcopy documentation
                included with this release is the DEC Notes Installa-
                tion Guide and this letter.

          o  Software Product Description (SPD)

             The SPD provides an overview of the DEC Notes kit and its
             features.

          o  System Support Addendum (SSA)

             The SSA describes the technical environment in which the
             product is supported.

          o  Software Performance Report (SPR)

             Use this form to report any problems with DEC Notes, provided
             you have purchased warranty services.

          A Final Note

          Digital prides itself on responding to customer needs. In order
          to continue serving you, we need your comments. Each manual
          contains preaddressed, postage-paid Reader's Comments forms
          at the back. If you find errors in a manual or want to make
          comments about it, please fill out one of these forms and send
          it to us.


























                                          3
