 






          Compaq


          Compaq NAS Packages Version 8.3A for OpenVMS Systems



          Read Before Installing

          Thank you for your interest in Compaq NAS Packages Version 8.3A.
          Compaq NAS Packages Version 8.3A documents component software
          support for Compaq OpenVMS Operating System Version 7.3-1.
          Please see the NAS Software Product Descriptions (SPDs) or the
          NAS Installation guide for more information on the components.

          The NAS Packages provide licenses for client/server enabling
          software, including:

          o  Licenses to use selected component products

          o  NAS Packages documentation

          The purchase of a NAS license authorizes the use versions of
          NAS component products shipping in the calendar quarter when
          the NAS license was purchased. Component update licenses or NAS
          update services may be purchased for use of later versions of
          any component.

          The Compaq NAS Packages components are available as separate
          kits on the OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX Software Products Li-
          braries (SPLs). See the SPL Master Indexes for the location of
          the NAS components, and see the corresponding Online Documen-
          tation Library (ODL) Master Indexes for the location of online
          documentation. These Master Indexes are also in the [README]
          directory on disc 1 of both the SPL and ODL. Some component kits
          may also be available as separate independent product offerings.

          Technical considerations for all NAS Packages Customers

          To successfully install the components that make up your NAS
          Packages, please read the instructions in the Compaq NAS Pack-
          ages for OpenVMS Alpha Systems Installation Guide, which out-
          lines the following procedures:

          o  Loading your Product Authorization Key (PAK)

          o  Installing the Compaq NAS Packages Base Kit (optional)

          o  Installing the Compaq NAS components and rebooting as neces-
             sary.

          See the Software Product Description (SPD) and the Compaq NAS
          Packages Installation Guide for a complete list of the compo-
          nents for each NAS package. See "Installing a NAS Package: At a
          Glance," a checklist in Chapter 2 of the Installation Guide, for
          a simple summary of the NAS installation procedures.

 






          The Compaq NAS Version 8.3A documentation has been delivered to
          you in online form. The Compaq NAS Packages provide documenta-
          tion in Bookreader, PostScript, and ASCII formats.

          Thank you for your interest in OpenVMS and its associated lay-
          ered products.

          ©2002, Compaq Information Technologies, L.P.

          Compaq, the Compaq logo, ACMS, All-In-1, CDA, DECforms, DECin-
          tact, InfoServer, LinkWorks, Mailbus, MicroVAX, PolyCenter,
          StorageWorks, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXELN, and VMS are Registered in the
          U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

          BASEstar, Datatrieve, and OpenVMS are trademarks of Compaq
          Information Technologies Group.

          All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks or
          registered trademarks of their respective companies.




































                                          2
